Forward-looking information is based on information available at the time and/or our good faith belief with respect to future events, and is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements. Such factors include, among other things, the following:

 

42

Given these uncertainties, risks and assumptions, as outlined above, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Our actual results and financial condition could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made. We assume no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except as may be required by law. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.

A summary of our significant accounting policies is outlined in Note 1 to the financial statements. We consider our critical accounting policies to be those that require us to make significant judgments and estimates when we prepare our financial statements, including the following:

Revenue Recognition:
  We record revenues and related receivables for health care services at the time the services are provided. Medicare and Medicaid revenues represented 30% of our net patient revenues during 2017, 32% during 2016 and 34% during 2015. Revenues from managed care entities, including health maintenance organizations and managed Medicare and Medicaid programs accounted for 56% of our net patient revenues during each of 2017 and 2016 and 54% during 2015. 

We report net patient service revenue at the estimated net realizable amounts from patients and third-party payors and others for services rendered. We have agreements with third-party payors that provide for payments to us at amounts different from our established rates. Payment arrangements include prospectively determined rates per discharge, reimbursed costs, discounted charges and per diem payments. Estimates of contractual allowances under managed care plans are based upon the payment terms specified in the related contractual agreements. We closely monitor our historical collection rates, as well as changes in applicable laws, rules and regulations and contract terms, to assure that provisions are made using the most accurate information available. However, due to the complexities involved in these estimations, actual payments from payors may be different from the amounts we estimate and record.

We estimate our Medicare and Medicaid revenues using the latest available financial information, patient utilization data, government provided data and in accordance with applicable Medicare and Medicaid payment rules and regulations. The laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are extremely complex and subject to interpretation and as a result, there is at least a reasonable possibility that recorded estimates will change by material amounts in the near term. Certain types of payments by the Medicare program and state Medicaid programs (e.g. Medicare Disproportionate Share Hospital, Medicare Allowable Bad Debts and Inpatient Psychiatric Services) are subject to retroactive adjustment in future periods as a result of administrative review and audit and our estimates may vary from the final settlements. Such amounts are included in accounts receivable, net, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The funding of both federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs are subject to legislative and 

 

43

regulatory changes. As such, we cannot provide any assurance that future legislation and regulations, if enacted, will not have a material impact on our future Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. Adjustments related to the final settlement of these retrospectively determined amounts did not materially impact our results in 2017, 2016 or 2015. If it were to occur, each 1% adjustment to our estimated net Medicare revenues that are subject to retrospective review and settlement as of December 31, 2017, would change our after-tax net income by approximately $1 million.

We provide care to patients who meet certain financial or economic criteria without charge or at amounts substantially less than our established rates. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts determined to qualify as charity care, they are not reported in net revenues or in accounts receivable, net. See additional disclosure below in 
Charity Care, Uninsured Discounts and Provision for Doubtful Accounts
 for our estimated uncompensated care provided and estimated cost of providing uncompensated care.

Charity Care, Uninsured Discounts and Provision for Doubtful Accounts:
  Collection of receivables from third-party payers and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. Our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill which is the patient’s responsibility, primarily co-payments and deductibles. We estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payer mix, the agings of the receivables and historical collection experience. We routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions which might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. At our acute care hospitals, third party liability accounts are pursued until all payment and adjustments are posted to the patient account. For those accounts with a patient balance after third party liability is finalized or accounts for uninsured patients, the patient receives statements and collection letters. Our hospitals establish a partial reserve for self-pay accounts in the allowance for doubtful accounts for both unbilled balances and those that have been billed and are under 90 days old. All self-pay accounts are fully reserved at 90 days from the date of discharge. Third party liability accounts are fully reserved in the allowance for doubtful accounts when the balance ages past 180 days from the date of discharge. Patients that express an inability to pay are reviewed for potential sources of financial assistance including our charity care policy. If the patient is deemed unwilling to pay, the account is written-off as bad debt and transferred to an outside collection agency for additional collection effort.

Historically, a significant portion of the patients treated throughout our portfolio of acute care hospitals are uninsured patients which, in part, has resulted from patients who are employed but do not have health insurance or who have policies with relatively high deductibles. Generally, patients treated at our hospitals for non-elective services, who have gross income less than 400% of the federal poverty guidelines, are deemed eligible for charity care. The federal poverty guidelines are established by the federal government and are based on income and family size. Effective January 1, 2016, our hospitals in certain states in which we operate reduced the charity care eligibility threshold to less than the federal poverty guidelines.  Because we do not pursue collection of amounts that qualify as charity care, they are not reported in our net revenues or in our accounts receivable, net.

A portion of the accounts receivable at our acute care facilities are comprised of Medicaid accounts that are pending approval from third-party payers but we also have smaller amounts due from other miscellaneous payers such as county indigent programs in certain states. Our patient registration process includes an interview of the patient or the patient’s responsible party at the time of registration. At that time, an insurance eligibility determination is made and an insurance plan code is assigned. There are various pre-established insurance profiles in our patient accounting system which determine the expected insurance reimbursement for each patient based on the insurance plan code assigned and the services rendered. Certain patients may be classified as Medicaid pending at registration based upon a screening evaluation if we are unable to definitively determine if they are currently Medicaid eligible. When a patient is registered as Medicaid eligible or Medicaid pending, our patient accounting system records net revenues for services provided to that patient based upon the established Medicaid reimbursement rates, subject to the ultimate disposition of the patient’s Medicaid eligibility. When the patient’s ultimate eligibility is determined, reclassifications may occur which impacts the reported amounts in future periods for the provision for doubtful accounts and other accounts such as Medicaid pending. Although the patient’s ultimate eligibility determination may result in amounts being reclassified among these accounts from period to period, these reclassifications did not have a material impact on our results of operations in 2017, 2016 or 2015 since our facilities make estimates at each financial reporting period to reserve for amounts that are deemed to be uncollectible.

We also provide discounts to uninsured patients (included in “uninsured discounts” amounts below) who do not qualify for Medicaid or charity care. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts classified as uninsured discounts, they are not reported in our net revenues or in our net accounts receivable. In implementing the discount policy, we first attempt to qualify uninsured patients for governmental programs, charity care or any other discount program. If an uninsured patient does not qualify for these programs, the uninsured discount is applied. Our accounts receivable are recorded net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $480 million and $410 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively.

 

44

Approximately 87% during 2017 and 85% during 2016 of our consolidated provision for doubtful accounts, was incurred by our acute care hospitals. Shown below is our payor mix concentrations and related aging of our billed accounts receivable, net of contractual allowances, for our acute care hospitals as of December 31, 2017 and 2016:

As of December 31, 2017:

 

 

As of December 31, 2016:

 

Self-Insured/Other Insurance Risks:
 We provide for self-insured risks including general and professional liability claims, workers’ compensation claims and healthcare and dental claims. Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and general liability claims is based on a number of factors including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts, estimate of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable under our commercial insurance policies. All relevant information, including our own historical experience is used in estimating the expected amount of claims. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved in making this estimate. Our estimated self-insured reserves are reviewed and changed, if necessary, at each reporting date and changes are recognized currently as additional expense or as a reduction of expense. In addition, we also: (i) own commercial health insurers headquartered in Reno, Nevada, and Puerto Rico and; (ii) maintain self-insured employee benefits programs for employee healthcare and dental claims. The ultimate costs related to these programs/operations include expenses for claims incurred and paid in addition to an accrual for the estimated expenses incurred in connection with claims incurred but not yet reported. Given our significant insurance-related exposure, there can be no assurance that a sharp increase in the number and/or severity of claims asserted against us will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.  

See 
Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements-Commitments and Contingencies
, for additional disclosure related to our professional and general liability, workers’ compensation liability and property insurance.  

Long-Lived Assets:
  We review our long-lived assets, including intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of our asset based on our estimate of its undiscounted future cash flow. If the analysis indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable from future cash flows, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value and an impairment loss is recognized. Fair values are determined based on estimated future cash flows using appropriate discount rates.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets:
 Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or sooner if the indicators of impairment arise. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and operational performance of each reporting unit.  We have designated October 1
st
 as our annual impairment assessment date and performed an impairment assessment as of October 1, 2017 which indicated no impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets.  There were also no impairments during 2016 or 2015.  During 2015, we changed our annual goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles testing date from September 1st to October 1st.  Management believes that this voluntary change in accounting method is preferable as it aligns the annual impairment testing date with our annual budgeting process. The 2015 change in annual testing date did not delay, accelerate or avoid an impairment charge. Future changes in the 

 

45

estimates used to conduct the impairment review, including profitability and market value projections, could indicate impairment in future periods potentially resulting in a write-off of a portion or all of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets.

Income Taxes:
 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the amount of taxes payable or deductible in future years as a result of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements. We believe that future income will enable us to realize our deferred tax assets net of recorded valuation allowances relating to state and foreign net operating loss carry-forwards.

On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “TCJA-17”).  The TCJA-17 makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited to, (1) reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent; (2) requiring companies to pay a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries; (3) generally eliminating U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; (4) requiring a current inclusion in U.S. federal taxable income of certain earnings of controlled foreign corporations through the implementation of a territorial tax system; and (5) creating a new limitation on deductible interest expense.  The SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 (“SAB 118”) to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant has not obtained, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) all of the information needed in order to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the TCJA-17.  To the extent that a company’s accounting for certain income tax effects of the TCJA-17 is incomplete, a reasonable estimate should be recorded as a provisional amount in the financial statements.  We were able to make reasonable estimates of the effects of elements for which our analysis is not yet complete.  We recorded the following provisional adjustments: 

Reduction of U.S. federal corporate tax rate:  
The TCJA-17 reduces the corporate tax rate to 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018.  Deferred income taxes are based on the estimated future tax effects of differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities under the provisions of the enacted laws.  For certain of our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, we have recorded a provisional decrease of $97 million and $127 million, respectively, with a corresponding net adjustment to deferred tax benefit of $30 million for the year ended December 31, 2017.  While we are able to make a reasonable estimate of the impact of the reduction in corporate rate, it may be affected by other analyses related to the TCJA-17, including, but not limited to, our calculation of deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income and the state tax effect of adjustments made to federal temporary differences.

Deemed Repatriation Transition Tax:
  The Deemed Repatriation Transition Tax (“Transition Tax”) is a tax on previously untaxed accumulated and current earnings and profits (“E&P”) of certain of our foreign subsidiaries.  To determine the amount of the Transition Tax, we must determine, in addition to other factors, the amount of post-1986 E&P of the relevant subsidiaries, as well as the amount of non-U.S. income taxes paid on such earnings.  We are able to make a reasonable estimate of the Transition Tax and recorded a provisional Transition Tax obligation of $11.3 million.  However, we are continuing to gather additional information to more precisely compute the amount of the Transition Tax.

Valuation allowances:
  We must assess whether valuation allowance analyses are affected by various aspects of the TCJA-17 (e.g., deemed repatriation of deferred foreign income).  Since, as discussed herein, we have recorded provisional amounts related to certain portions of the TCJA-17, any corresponding determination of the need for or change in valuation allowances is also provisional.  

The accounting for the above provisional amounts is expected to be complete when our 2017 U.S. Corporate Income Tax return is filed in 2018.

The decrease in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2017, as compared to 2016 and 2015, is due to the tax benefit resulting from our January 1, 2017 adoption of ASU 2016-09, the net favorable impact of the enactment of the TCJA-17 as discussed above, and the tax effects of our foreign operations in connection with our acquisition of Cambian Group, PLC’s adult services division (acquired in late December, 2016).  We expect our 2018 effective tax rate to be significantly lower than our current year effective tax rate, excluding the impacts of the new federal tax reform legislation, attributable to the reduction of the federal corporate income tax rate included in the TCJA-17.

We operate in multiple jurisdictions with varying tax laws. We are subject to audits by any of these taxing authorities. Our tax returns have been examined by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) through the year ended December 31, 2006. We believe that adequate accruals have been provided for federal, foreign and state taxes.

See 
Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rates
 below for discussion of our effective tax rates during each of the last three years.

 

46

Recent Accounting Pronouncements:
  For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements, please see 
Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements-Accounting Standards
 as included in this Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017.

Results of Operations

The following table summarizes our results of operations, and is used in the discussion below, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 (dollar amounts in thousands):

 

 

Year Ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016:

Net revenues increased 6.6% or $644 million to $10.41 billion during 2017 as compared to $9.77 billion during 2016. The increase was primarily attributable to:

Income before income taxes (before deduction for income attributable to noncontrolling interests) decreased $21 million to $1.14 billion during 2017 as compared to $1.16 billion during 2016. The net decrease in our income before income taxes during 2017, as compared to 2016, was due to the following:

 

47

 

Net income attributable to UHS increased $50 million to $752 million during 2017 as compared to $702 million during 2016. 

The increase consisted of:

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2015:

Net revenues increased 8% or $723 million to $9.77 billion during 2016 as compared to $9.04 billion during 2015. The increase was primarily attributable to:

Income before income taxes (before deduction for income attributable to noncontrolling interests) increased $10 million to $1.16 billion during 2016 as compared to $1.15 billion during 2015. The net increase in our income before income taxes during 2016, as compared to 2015, was due to the following:

Net income attributable to UHS increased $22 million to $702 million during 2016 as compared to $681 million during 2015. 

The increase consisted of:

 

48

Acute Care Hospital Services

Year Ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016:

Acute Care Hospital Services-Same Facility Basis

We believe that providing our results on a “Same Facility” basis (which is a non-GAAP measure), which includes the operating results for facilities and businesses operated in both the current year and prior year periods, is helpful to our investors as a measure of our operating performance. Our Same Facility results also neutralize (if applicable) the impact of the EHR applications, the effect of items that are non-operational in nature including items such as, but not limited to, gains/losses on sales of assets and businesses, impacts of settlements, legal judgments and lawsuits, impairments of long-lived assets and other amounts that may be reflected in the current or prior year financial statements that relate to prior periods. Our Same Facility basis results reflected on the tables below also exclude from net revenues and other operating expenses, provider tax assessments incurred in each period as discussed below 
Sources of Revenue-Various State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs.
 However, these provider tax assessments are included in net revenues and other operating expenses as reflected in the table below under 
All Acute Care Hospital Services
. The provider tax assessments had no impact on the income before income taxes as reflected on the tables below since the amounts offset between net revenues and other operating expenses. To obtain a complete understanding of our financial performance, the Same Facility results should be examined in connection with our net income as determined in accordance with GAAP and as presented in the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto as contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

The following table summarizes the results of operations for our acute care hospital services on a same facility basis and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (dollar amounts in thousands):

 

 

On a same facility basis during 2017, as compared to 2016, net revenues from our acute care services increased $234 million or 4.7%. Income before income taxes increased $51 million or 9% to $644 million or 12.3% of net revenues during 2017 as compared to $593 million or 11.8% of net revenues during 2016.

Inpatient admissions to our acute care hospitals owned during both years increased 6.2% during 2017, as compared to 2016, while patient days increased 3.4%. Adjusted admissions (adjusted for outpatient activity) increased 5.5% and adjusted patient days increased 2.8% during 2017, as compared to 2016. The average length of inpatient stay at these facilities was 4.4 days during 2017 and 4.6 days during 2016. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 61% during 2017 and 60% during 2016. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities decreased 0.3% during 2017, as compared to 2016, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 2.4% during 2017, as compared to 2016.

   
All Acute Care Hospital Services

The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our acute care operations during 2017 and 2016. These amounts include: (i) our acute care results on a same facility basis, as indicated above; (ii) the impact of the implementation of EHR applications at our acute care hospitals; (iii) the impact of provider tax assessments which increased net revenues and other operating expenses but had no impact on income before income taxes, and; (iv) certain other amounts including the results of a 25-bed acute care hospital located in Pahrump, Nevada that was acquired in August, 2016, the results of a newly constructed, 130-bed acute care hospital located in Henderson, Nevada that was completed and opened during the fourth quarter of 2016 and the favorable impact of 

 

49

Medicaid settlements relating to prior years that is included in our results of operations during 2017.  Dollar amounts below are reflected in thousands.

 

 

During 2017, as compared to 2016, net revenues generated from our acute care hospital services increased $372 million or 7.3% to $5.48 billion due primarily to: (i) a $234 million, or 4.7%, increase same facility revenues, as discussed above, and; (ii) other combined net increase of $138 million due primarily to the net revenues generated at the two above-mentioned acute care hospitals located in Nevada that were acquired or opened during 2016. 

 

Income before income taxes increased $84 million to $642 million or 11.7% of net revenues during 2017 as compared to $557 million or 10.9% of net revenues during 2016.

Included in these results are the following:

Uncompensated care (charity care and uninsured discounts):

The following table shows the amounts recorded at our acute care hospitals for charity care and uninsured discounts, based on charges at established rates, for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015:

 

 

Generally, patients treated at our hospitals for non-elective services, who have gross income less than 400% of the federal poverty guidelines, are deemed eligible for charity care. The federal poverty guidelines are established by the federal government and are based on income and family size. Effective January 1, 2016, our hospitals in certain states in which we operate reduced the charity care eligibility threshold to less than the federal poverty guidelines. During 2017 and 2016, as compared to 2015, this change resulted in an increase in the charity care component of our total uncompensated care and a decrease in the uninsured discount component. 

 

 

50

The provision for doubtful accounts at our acute care hospitals was approximately $756 million during 2017, $628 million during 2016 and $631 million during 2015. 

The estimated cost of providing uncompensated care:

The estimated costs of providing uncompensated care as reflected below were based on a calculation which multiplied the percentage of operating expenses for our acute care hospitals to gross charges for those hospitals by the above-mentioned total uncompensated care amounts. Amounts included in the provision for doubtful accounts, as mentioned above, are not included in the calculation of estimated costs of providing uncompensated care. The percentage of cost to gross charges is calculated based on the total operating expenses for our acute care facilities divided by gross patient service revenue for those facilities.

 

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2015:

Acute Care Hospital Services-Same Facility Basis

The following table summarizes the results of operations for our acute care hospital services on a same facility basis and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 (dollar amounts in thousands):

 

 

On a same facility basis during 2016, as compared to 2015, net revenues from our acute care services increased $430 million or 9.4%. Income before income taxes increased $54 million or 10% to $594 million or 11.9% of net revenues during 2016 as compared to $539 million or 11.8% of net revenues during 2015.

Inpatient admissions to our acute care hospitals owned during both years increased 4.3% during 2016, as compared to 2015, while patient days increased 2.4%. Adjusted admissions (adjusted for outpatient activity) increased 5.2% and adjusted patient days increased 3.3% during 2016, as compared to 2015. The average length of inpatient stay at these facilities was 4.6 days during 2016 and 4.7 days during 2015. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 60% during 2016 and 59% during 2015. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities increased 2.7% during 2016, as compared to 2015, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 4.6% during 2016, as compared to 2015.

   
All Acute Care Hospital Services

The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our acute care operations during 2016 and 2015. These amounts include: (i) our acute care results on a same facility basis, as indicated above; (ii) the impact of the implementation of EHR applications at our acute care hospitals; (iii) the impact of provider tax assessments which increased net revenues and other operating expenses but had no impact on income before income taxes, and; (iv) certain other amounts including the results of a 25-bed acute care hospital located in Pahrump, Nevada that was acquired in August, 2016 and the results of a newly constructed, 130-bed acute care 

 

51

hospital located in Henderson, Nevada that was completed and opened during the fourth quarter of 2016.  Dollar amounts below are reflected in thousands.

 

 

During 2016, as compared to 2015, net revenues generated from our acute care hospital services increased $480 million or 10.4% to $5.11 billion due primarily to: (i) a $430 million, or 9.4%, increase same facility revenues, as discussed above, and; (ii) other combined net increase of $50 million due primarily to the net revenues generated at the two above-mentioned acute care hospitals located in Nevada that were acquired or opened during 2016, and an increase in provider tax assessments. 

 

Income before income taxes increased $37 million to $557 million or 10.9% of net revenues during 2016 as compared to $520 million or 11.2% of net revenues during 2015.

Included in these results are the following:

 

52

Behavioral Health Care Services

Year Ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016

Behavioral Health Care Services-Same Facility Basis

Our Same Facility basis results (which is a non-GAAP measure), which include the operating results for facilities and businesses operated in both the current year and prior year period, neutralize (if applicable) the effect of items that are non-operational in nature including items such as, but not limited to, gains/losses on sales of assets and businesses, impacts of settlements, legal judgments and lawsuits, impairments of long-lived assets and other amounts that may be reflected in the current or prior year financial statements that relate to prior periods. Our Same Facility basis results reflected on the tables below also exclude from net revenues and other operating expenses, provider tax assessments incurred in each period as discussed below 
Sources of Revenue-Various State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs.
 However, these provider tax assessments are included in net revenues and other operating expenses as reflected in the table below under 
All Behavioral Health Care Services
. The provider tax assessments had no impact on the income before income taxes as reflected on the tables below since the amounts offset between net revenues and other operating expenses. To obtain a complete understanding of our financial performance, the Same Facility results should be examined in connection with our net income as determined in accordance with GAAP and as presented in the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto as contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

The following table summarizes the results of operations for our behavioral health care services, on a same facility basis, and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (dollar amounts in thousands):

 

 

On a same facility basis during 2017, as compared to 2016, net revenues generated from our behavioral health care services increased $79 million or 1.7% to $4.63 billion during 2017 as compared to $4.55 billion during 2016. Income before income taxes decreased $67 million or 7% to $971 million or 21.0% of net revenues during 2017 as compared to $1.04 billion or 22.8% of net revenues during 2016.

Inpatient admissions to our behavioral health care facilities owned during both years increased 2.5% during 2017, as compared to 2016, while patient days increased 0.3%. Adjusted admissions increased 2.4% and adjusted patient days increased 0.2% during 2017, as compared to 2016. The average length of inpatient stay at these facilities were 12.8 days and 13.1 days during 2017 and 2016, respectively. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, were 75% and 76% during 2017 and 2016, respectively.  On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities decreased 0.4% during 2017, as compared to 2016, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 1.9% during 2017, as compared to 2016.

In certain markets in which we operate, the ability of our behavioral health facilities to fully meet the demand for their services has been unfavorably impacted by a shortage of clinicians which includes psychiatrists, nurses and mental health technicians which has, at times, caused the closure of a portion of available bed capacity. As a result, we have instituted certain initiatives at the impacted facilities designed to enhance recruitment and retention of clinical staff.  Although we believe the impact on these facilities is temporary, we can provide no assurance that these factors will not continue to unfavorably impact our patient volumes.             

All Behavioral Health Care Services

The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our behavioral health care services during 2017 and 2016. These amounts include: (i) our behavioral health care results on a same facility basis, as indicated above; (ii) the impact of provider tax 

 

53

assessments which increased net revenues and other operating expenses but had no impact on income before income taxes, and; (iii) certain other amounts including the results of facilities acquired or opened during the past year including the behavioral health care facilities acquired in the U.K. in connection with our acquisition of Cambian Group, PLC’s adult services division which was acquired in late December, 2016.  Dollar amounts below are reflected in thousands.

 

 

During 2017, as compared to 2016, net revenues generated from our behavioral health care services increased 5.6% or $262 million to $4.91 billion during 2017 as compared to $4.65 billion during 2016. The increase in net revenues was attributable to: (i) $79 million or 1.7% increase in same facility revenues, as discussed above, and; (ii) $183 million of other combined net increases consisting primarily of the revenues generated at the facilities acquired in the U.K. in late December, 2016 in connection with our acquisition of Cambian Group, PLC’s Adult Services division.    

Income before income taxes decreased $62 million or 6% to $969 million or 19.7% of net revenues during 2017 as compared to $1.03 billion or 22.2% of net revenues during 2016. The decrease in income before income taxes at our behavioral health facilities was attributable to:

 

54

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2015

Behavioral Health Care Services-Same Facility Basis

The following table summarizes the results of operations for our behavioral health care services, on a same facility basis, and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 (dollar amounts in thousands):

 

 

On a same facility basis during 2016, as compared to 2015, net revenues generated from our behavioral health care services increased $112 million or 2.6% to $4.43 billion during 2016 as compared to $4.31 billion during 2015. Income before income taxes decreased $10 million or 1% to $1.02 billion or 23.1% of net revenues during 2016 as compared to $1.03 billion or 24.0% of net revenues during 2015.

Inpatient admissions to our behavioral health care facilities owned during both years increased 1.3% during 2016, as compared to 2015, while patient days increased 1.2%. Adjusted admissions increased 1.0% and adjusted patient days increased 0.9% during 2016, as compared to 2015. The average length of inpatient stay at these facilities was 13.0 days during each of 2016 and 2015. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 76% during each of 2016 and 2015. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities increased 1.4% during 2016, as compared to 2015, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 1.5% during 2016, as compared to 2015.

All Behavioral Health Care Services

The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our behavioral health care services during 2016 and 2015 which includes our behavioral health results on a same facility basis, the impact of the facilities acquired or opened within the previous twelve months, and the impact of provider tax assessments which increased net revenues and other operating expenses but had no impact on income before income taxes (dollar amounts in thousands):

 

55

 

During 2016, as compared to 2015, net revenues generated from our behavioral health care services increased 5.6% or $245 million to $4.65 billion during 2016 as compared to $4.40 billion during 2015. The increase in net revenues was attributable to: (i) $112 million or 2.6% increase in same facility revenues, as discussed above, and; (ii) $133 million of other combined increases consisting primarily of the revenues generated at the facilities acquired in the Alpha and Foundations transactions.   

Income before income taxes increased $9 million or 1% to $1.03 billion or 22.2% of net revenues during 2016 as compared to $1.02 billion or 23.2% of net revenues during 2015. The increase in income before income taxes at our behavioral health facilities was attributable to:

Sources of Revenue

Overview:
 We receive payments for services rendered from private insurers, including managed care plans, the federal government under the Medicare program, state governments under their respective Medicaid programs and directly from patients.

Hospital revenues depend upon inpatient occupancy levels, the medical and ancillary services and therapy programs ordered by physicians and provided to patients, the volume of outpatient procedures and the charges or negotiated payment rates for such services. Charges and reimbursement rates for inpatient routine services vary depending on the type of services provided (e.g., medical/surgical, intensive care or behavioral health) and the geographic location of the hospital. Inpatient occupancy levels fluctuate for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control. The percentage of patient service revenue attributable to outpatient services has generally increased in recent years, primarily as a result of advances in medical technology that allow more services to be provided on an outpatient basis, as well as increased pressure from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers to reduce hospital stays and provide services, where possible, on a less expensive outpatient basis. We believe that our experience with respect to our increased outpatient levels mirrors the general trend occurring in the health care industry and we are unable to predict the rate of growth and resulting impact on our future revenues.

Patients are generally not responsible for any difference between customary hospital charges and amounts reimbursed for such services under Medicare, Medicaid, some private insurance plans, and managed care plans, but are responsible for services not covered by such plans, exclusions, deductibles or co-insurance features of their coverage. The amount of such exclusions, deductibles and co-insurance has generally been increasing each year. Indications from recent federal and state legislation are that this trend will continue. Collection of amounts due from individuals is typically more difficult than from governmental or business payers which unfavorably impacts the collectability of our patient accounts.

Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform:
 Given increasing budget deficits, the federal government and many states are currently considering additional ways to limit increases in levels of Medicare and Medicaid funding, which could also adversely affect future payments received by our hospitals. In addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon the federal government as a result of, among other things, economic recovery stimulus packages, responses to natural disasters, and the federal budget deficit in general may affect the availability of federal funds to provide additional relief in the future. We are unable to predict the effect of future policy changes on our operations.

On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”). The Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Reconciliation Act”), which contains a number of amendments to the PPACA, was signed into law on March 30, 2010. Two primary goals of the PPACA, combined with the Reconciliation Act (collectively referred to as the “Legislation”), are to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses.

Although it is expected that as a result of the Legislation there may be a reduction in uninsured patients, which should reduce our expense from uncollectible accounts receivable, the Legislation makes a number of other changes to Medicare and Medicaid which we believe may have an adverse impact on us. It has been projected that the Legislation will result in a net reduction in Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals totaling $155 billion over 10 years. The Legislation revises reimbursement under the Medicare and Medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. The Legislation provides for decreases in the annual market basket update for federal fiscal years 2010 through 2019, a productivity offset to the market basket update beginning October 1, 2011 for Medicare Part B reimbursable items and services and beginning October 1, 2012 for Medicare inpatient hospital services. The Legislation and subsequent revisions provide for reductions to both Medicare DSH and Medicaid DSH payments. The Medicare DSH reductions began in October, 2013 while the Medicaid DSH reductions are scheduled to begin in 2020. The Legislation implements a value-based 

 

56

purchasing program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. Conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters; such hospitals will include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates.

A 2012 U.S. Supreme Court ruling limited the federal government’s ability to expand health insurance coverage by holding unconstitutional sections of the Legislation that sought to withdraw federal funding for state noncompliance with certain Medicaid coverage requirements. Pursuant to that decision, the federal government may not penalize states that choose not to participate in the Medicaid expansion program by reducing their existing Medicaid funding. Therefore, states can choose to accept or not to participate without risking the loss of federal Medicaid funding. As a result, many states, including Texas, have not expanded their Medicaid programs without the threat of loss of federal funding. CMS has granted, and is expected to grant additional, section 1115 demonstration waivers providing for work and community engagement requirements for certain Medicaid eligible individuals. It is anticipated this will lead to reductions in coverage, and likely increases in uncompensated care, in states where these demonstration waivers are granted. 

The various provisions in the Legislation that directly or indirectly affect Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. The impact of the Legislation on healthcare providers will be subject to implementing regulations, interpretive guidance and possible future legislation or legal challenges. Certain Legislation provisions, such as that creating the Medicare Shared Savings Program creates uncertainty in how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the future. Thus, we cannot predict the impact of the Legislation on our future reimbursement at this time and we can provide no assurance that the Legislation will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.

The Legislation also contained provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. The Legislation amends several existing laws, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the False Claims Act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. While Congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the Anti-Kickback Statute to provide that a person is not required to “have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of” the Anti-Kickback Statute in order to be found in violation of such law, the Legislation also provides that any claims for items or services that violate the Anti-Kickback Statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. The Legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal civil False Claims Act, although final regulations implementing this statutory requirement remain pending. The Legislation also expands the Recovery Audit Contractor program to Medicaid. These amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations.

We have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. These investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. The Legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a “grandfather” clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. The Legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities.  As discussed below, should the Legislation be repealed in its entirety, this aspect of the Legislation would also be repealed restoring physician ownership of hospitals and expansion right to its position and practice as it existed prior to the Legislation.     

The impact of the Legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. Because Legislation provisions are effective at various times over the next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the Legislation may be subject to further revision. Initiatives to repeal the Legislation, in whole or in part, to delay elements of implementation or funding, and to offer amendments or supplements to modify its provisions have been persistent. The ultimate outcomes of legislative attempts to repeal or amend the Legislation and legal challenges to the Legislation are unknown.  Legislation has already been enacted that has repealed the individual mandate to obtain health insurance penalty that was part of the original Legislation. In addition, Congress is considering legislation that would, in material part: (i) eliminate the large employer mandate to obtain or provide health insurance coverage, respectively; (ii) permit insurers to impose a surcharge up to 30 percent on individuals who go uninsured for more than two months and then purchase coverage; (iii) provide tax credits towards the purchase of health insurance, with a phase-out of tax credits accordingly to income level; (iv) expand health savings accounts; (v) impose a per capita cap on federal funding of state Medicaid programs, or, if elected by a state, transition federal funding to block grants, and; (vi) permit states to seek a waiver of certain federal requirements that would allow such state to define essential health benefits differently from federal standards and that would allow certain commercial health plans to take health status, including pre-existing conditions, into account in setting premiums.  

In addition to legislative changes, the Legislation can be significantly impacted by executive branch actions.  In relevant part, President Trump has already taken executive actions: (i) requiring all federal agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the Legislation to “exercise all authority and discretion available to them to waiver, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay” parts of the Legislation that place “unwarranted economic and regulatory burdens” on states, individuals or health care providers; (ii) the issuance of a proposed rule by the Department of Labor to enable the formation of health plans that would be exempt from certain Legislation 

 

57

essential health benefits requirements, and; (iii) eliminating cost-sharing reduction payments to insurers that would otherwise offset deductibles and other out-of-pocket expenses for health plan enrollees at or below 250 percent of the federal poverty level. The uncertainty resulting from these Executive Branch policies has led to reduced Exchange enrollment in 2018 and is expected to further worsen the individual and small group market risk pools in future years.  It is also anticipated that these and future policies may create additional cost and reimbursement pressures on hospitals.  

It remains unclear what portions of the Legislation may remain, or whether any replacement or alternative programs may be created by any future legislation.  Any such future repeal or replacement may have significant impact on the reimbursement for healthcare services generally, and may create reimbursement for services competing with the services offered by our hospitals.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the adoption of any future federal or state healthcare reform legislation will not have a negative financial impact on our hospitals, including their ability to compete with alternative healthcare services funded by such potential legislation, or for our hospitals to receive payment for services.

The following tables show the approximate percentages of net patient revenue during the past three years for: (i) our Acute Care and Behavioral Health Care Facilities Combined; (ii) our Acute Care Facilities, and; (iii) our Behavioral Health Care Facilities. Net patient revenue is defined as revenue from all sources after deducting contractual allowances and discounts from established billing rates, which we derived from various sources of payment for the years indicated.

 

 

 

 

 

Medicare:
 Medicare is a federal program that provides certain hospital and medical insurance benefits to persons aged 65 and over, some disabled persons and persons with end-stage renal disease. All of our acute care hospitals and many of our behavioral health centers are certified as providers of Medicare services by the appropriate governmental authorities. Amounts received under the Medicare program are generally significantly less than a hospital’s customary charges for services provided. Since a substantial portion of our revenues will come from patients under the Medicare program, our ability to operate our business successfully in the future will depend in large measure on our ability to adapt to changes in this program.

Under the Medicare program, for inpatient services, our general acute care hospitals receive reimbursement under the inpatient prospective payment system (“IPPS”). Under the IPPS, hospitals are paid a predetermined fixed payment amount for each hospital discharge. The fixed payment amount is based upon each patient’s Medicare severity diagnosis related group (“MS-DRG”). Every 

 

58

MS-DRG is assigned a payment rate based upon the estimated intensity of hospital resources necessary to treat the average patient with that particular diagnosis. The MS-DRG payment rates are based upon historical national average costs and do not consider the actual costs incurred by a hospital in providing care. This MS-DRG assignment also affects the predetermined capital rate paid with each MS-DRG. The MS-DRG and capital payment rates are adjusted annually by the predetermined geographic adjustment factor for the geographic region in which a particular hospital is located and are weighted based upon a statistically normal distribution of severity. While we generally will not receive payment from Medicare for inpatient services, other than the MS-DRG payment, a hospital may qualify for an “outlier” payment if a particular patient’s treatment costs are extraordinarily high and exceed a specified threshold. MS-DRG rates are adjusted by an update factor each federal fiscal year, which begins on October 1. The index used to adjust the MS-DRG rates, known as the “hospital market basket index,” gives consideration to the inflation experienced by hospitals in purchasing goods and services. Generally, however, the percentage increases in the MS-DRG payments have been lower than the projected increase in the cost of goods and services purchased by hospitals.

In August, 2017, CMS published its IPPS 2018 final payment rule which provides for a 2.9% market basket increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates, documenting and coding adjustments and Health Care Reform mandated adjustments are considered, without consideration for the decreases related to the required Medicare Disproportionate Share Hospital (“DSH”) payment changes and increase to the Medicare Outlier threshold, the overall increase in IPPS payments would approximate 2.3%. Including the estimated decrease to our DSH payments (approximating 0.1%) and certain other adjustments, we estimate our overall increase from the final IPPS 2018 rule (covering the period of October 1, 2017 through September 30, 2018) will approximate 1.8%. This projected impact from the IPPS 2018 final rule includes an increase of approximately 0.5% to partially restore cuts made as a result of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, as required by the 21st Century Cures Act but excludes the impact of the sequestration reductions related to the Budget Control Act of 2011, Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, and Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, as discussed below.  CMS will also begin using uncompensated care data from the 2014 hospital cost report Worksheet S-10, one-third weighting as part of the proxy methodology to allocate approximately $7 billion in the DSH Uncompensated Care Pool. This final rule change will result in wide variations among all hospitals nationwide in the distribution of these DSH funds compared to previous years. As a result of this final change by CMS, we could incur a material decrease in our DSH payments in federal fiscal year 2019 and forward if CMS increases the weighting of the Worksheet S-10 data in the DSH Pool allocation methodology. 

In August, 2016, CMS published its IPPS 2017 final payment rule which provides for a 2.7% market basket increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates, documenting and coding adjustments and Health Care Reform mandated adjustments are considered, without consideration for the decreases related to the required DSH payment changes and increase to the Medicare Outlier threshold, the overall increase in IPPS payments would approximate 0.95%. Including the estimated decreases to our DSH payments (approximating -0.8%) and certain other adjustments, we estimate our overall decrease from the final IPPS 2017 rule (covering the period of October 1, 2016 through September 30, 2017) would approximate -0.2%. This projected impact from the IPPS 2017 final rule includes both the impact of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 documentation and coding adjustment and the required changes to the DSH payments related to the traditional Medicare fee for service, however, it excludes the impact of the sequestration reductions related to the Budget Control Act of 2011, and Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, as discussed below.

In July, 2015, CMS published its IPPS 2016 final payment rule which provided for a 2.4% market basket increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates, documenting and coding adjustments and Health Care Reform mandated adjustments are considered, without consideration for the decreases related to the required Medicare DSH payment changes and decrease to the Medicare Outlier threshold, the overall increase in IPPS payments approximated 1.1%. Including the decreases to our Medicare DSH payments (approximating 1.6%) and certain other adjustments, our overall decrease from the final IPPS 2016 rule (covering the period of October 1, 2015 through September 30, 2016) was approximately -0.1%. The impact from the IPPS 2016 final rule includes both the impact of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 documentation and coding adjustment and the required changes to the DSH payments related to the traditional Medicare fee for service, however, it excludes the impact of the sequestration reductions related to the Budget Control Act of 2011, and Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, as discussed below.

In August, 2013, CMS published its final IPPS 2014 payment rule which expanded CMS’s policy under which it defines inpatient admissions to include the use of an objective time of care standard. Specifically, it would require Medicare’s external review contractors to presume that hospital inpatient admissions are reasonable and necessary when beneficiaries receive a physician order for admission and receive medically necessary services for at least two midnights (the “Two Midnight” rule). In October, 2015 as part of the 2016 Medicare Outpatient Prospective Payment System (“OPPS”) final rule (additional related disclosure below), CMS will allow payment for one-midnight stays under the Medicare Part A benefit on a case-by case basis for rare and unusual exceptions based the presence of certain clinical factors. CMS also announced in the final rule that, effective October 1, 2015, Quality Improvement Organizations (“QIOs”) will conduct reviews of short inpatient stay reviews rather than Medicare Administrative Contractors. Additionally, CMS also announced that Recovery Audit Contractors (“RACs”) resumed patient status reviews for claims with 

 

59

admission dates of January 1, 2016 or later, and the agency indicates that RACs will conduct these reviews focused on providers with high denial rates that are referred by the QIOs. 
In its IPPS 2017 final payment rule, CMS: (i) reversed the Two-Midnight rule’s 0.2% reduction in hospital payments, and; (ii) implemented a temporary one-time increase of 0.8% in FFY2017 payments to offset cuts in the preceding fiscal years affected by the prior 0.2% reduction. 

In August, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “2011 Act”) was enacted into law. Included in this law are the imposition of annual spending limits for most federal agencies and programs aimed at reducing budget deficits by $917 billion between 2012 and 2021, according to a report released by the Congressional Budget Office. Among its other provisions, the law established a bipartisan Congressional committee, known as the Joint Committee, which was responsible for developing recommendations aimed at reducing future federal budget deficits by an additional $1.5 trillion over 10 years. The Joint Committee was unable to reach an agreement by the November 23, 2011 deadline and, as a result, across-the-board cuts to discretionary, national defense and Medicare spending were implemented on March 1, 2013 resulting in Medicare payment reductions of up to 2% per fiscal year.  The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, enacted on November 2, 2015, and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, enacted on February 9, 2018, continued the 2% reductions to Medicare reimbursement imposed under the 2011 Act.  

On January 2, 2013 ATRA was enacted which, among other things, includes a requirement for CMS to recoup $11 billion from hospitals from Medicare IPPS rates during federal fiscal years 2014 to 2017. The recoupment relates to IPPS documentation and coding adjustments for the period 2008 to 2013 for which adjustments were not previously applied by CMS. Both the 2014 and 2015 IPPS final rules include a -0.8% recoupment adjustment. CMS has included the same 0.8% recoupment adjustment in fiscal year 2016, a 1.5% recoupment adjustment in federal fiscal year 2017, and a 0.45% positive adjustment in fiscal year 2018 in order to recover the entire $11 billion. This adjustment is reflected in the IPPS estimated impact amounts noted above. On April 16, 2015, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 was enacted and an anticipated 3.2% payment increase in 2018 is scheduled to be phased in at approximately 0.5% per year over 6 years beginning in fiscal year 2018.  

Inpatient services furnished by psychiatric hospitals under the Medicare program are paid under a Psychiatric Prospective Payment System (“Psych PPS”). Medicare payments to psychiatric hospitals are based on a prospective per diem rate with adjustments to account for certain facility and patient characteristics. The Psych PPS also contains provisions for outlier payments and an adjustment to a psychiatric hospital’s base payment if it maintains a full-service emergency department.

In August, 2017, CMS published its Psych PPS final rule for the federal fiscal year 2018. Under this final rule, payments to our psychiatric hospitals and units are estimated to increase by 1.25% compared to federal fiscal year 2017. This amount includes the effect of the 2.6% market basket update less a 0.75% adjustment as required by the ACA and a 0.6% productivity adjustment.

In July, 2016, CMS published its Psych PPS final rule for the federal fiscal year 2017. Under this final rule, payments to psychiatric hospitals and units are estimated to increase by 2.3% compared to federal fiscal year 2016. This amount includes the effect of the 2.8% market basket update less a 0.2% adjustment as required by the ACA and a 0.3% productivity adjustment. 

In July, 2015, CMS published its Psych PPS final rule for the federal fiscal year 2016. Under this final rule, payments to psychiatric hospitals and units increased by approximately 1.7% compared to federal fiscal year 2015. This amount includes the effect of the 2.4% market basket update less a 0.2% adjustment as required by the ACA and a 0.5% productivity adjustment. The final rule also updates the Inpatient Psychiatric Quality Reporting Program, which requires psychiatric facilities to report on quality measures or incur a reduction in their annual payment update.

In November, 2017, CMS published its OPPS final rule for 2018. The hospital market basket increase is 2.7%. The Medicare statute requires a productivity adjustment reduction of 0.6% and 0.75% reduction to the 2017 OPPS market basket resulting in a 2018 OPPS market basket update at 1.35%. When other statutorily required adjustments and hospital patient service mix are considered, we estimate that our overall Medicare OPPS update for 2018 will aggregate to a net increase of 4.2% which includes a 0.8% increase to behavioral health division partial hospitalization rates. When the behavioral health division’s partial hospitalization rate impact is excluded, we estimate that our Medicare 2018 OPPS payments will result in a 4.8% increase in payment levels for our acute care division, as compared to 2017.  Additionally, the Medicare inpatient-only (IPO) list includes procedures that are only paid under the Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System. Each year, CMS uses established criteria to review the IPO list and determine whether or not any procedures should be removed from the list. CMS is removing total knee arthroplasty (TKA) from the IPO list effective January 1, 2018. Additionally, CMS will redistribute $1.6 billion in cost savings within the OPPS system attributable to changes in the federal 340B hospital drug pricing payment methodology in 2018. The impact of these IPO and 340B changes are reflected in the above noted estimated acute care division percentage change in OPPS reimbursement.

In November, 2016, CMS published its OPPS final rule for 2017. The hospital market basket increase is 2.7%. The Medicare statute requires a productivity adjustment reduction of 0.3% and 0.75% reduction to the 2017 OPPS market basket resulting in a 2017 

 

60

OPPS market basket update at 1.65%. When other statutorily required adjustments and hospital patient service mix are considered, we estimate that our overall Medicare OPPS update for 2017 resulted in a net increase of 1.5% which included a -1.3% decrease to behavioral health division partial hospitalization rates. When the behavioral health division’s partial hospitalization rate impact is excluded, we estimate that our Medicare 2017 OPPS payments resulted in a 2.1% increase in payment levels for our acute care division, as compared to 2016.

In October, 2015, CMS published its OPPS final rule for 2016. The hospital market basket increase is 2.8%. The Medicare statute requires a productivity adjustment reduction of 0.5% and 0.2% reduction to the 2016 OPPS market basket. Additionally, CMS also included a reduction of 2.0%, which the CMS claimed was necessary to eliminate $1 billion in excess laboratory payments that CMS packaged into OPPS payment rates in 2014 resulting in a 2016 OPPS market basket update at -0.3%. When other statutorily required adjustments and hospital patient service mix are considered, our overall Medicare OPPS update for 2016 aggregated to a net decrease of approximately -0.2% which includes a 7.0% increase to behavioral health division partial hospitalization rates. When the behavioral health division’s partial hospitalization rate impact is excluded, our Medicare 2016 OPPS payments resulted in a -1.6% decrease in payment levels for our acute care division, as compared to 2015.

In October, 2014, CMS published its OPPS final rule for 2015. The hospital market basket increase is 2.9%. The Medicare statute requires a productivity adjustment reduction of 0.5% and 0.2% reduction to the 2015 OPPS market basket resulting in a 2015 OPPS market basket update at 2.2%. In the final rule, CMS will reduce the 2015 Medicare rates for both hospital-based and community mental health center partial hospitalization programs. When other statutorily required adjustments, hospital patient service mix and the aforementioned partial hospitalization rates are considered, our overall Medicare OPPS for 2015 aggregated to a net increase of approximately 0.2%. Excluding the behavioral health division partial hospitalization rate impact, our Medicare OPPS payment increase for 2015 was approximately 1.5%.

Medicaid:
 Medicaid is a joint federal-state funded health care benefit program that is administered by the states to provide benefits to qualifying individuals who are unable to afford care. Most state Medicaid payments are made under a PPS-like system, or under programs that negotiate payment levels with individual hospitals. Amounts received under the Medicaid program are generally significantly less than a hospital’s customary charges for services provided. In addition to revenues received pursuant to the Medicare program, we receive a large portion of our revenues either directly from Medicaid programs or from managed care companies managing Medicaid. All of our acute care hospitals and most of our behavioral health centers are certified as providers of Medicaid services by the appropriate governmental authorities.

We receive revenues from various state and county based programs, including Medicaid in all the states in which we operate (we receive Medicaid revenues in excess of $100 million annually from each of Texas, California, Nevada, Washington, D.C., Pennsylvania and Illinois); CMS-approved Medicaid supplemental programs in certain states including Texas, Mississippi, Illinois, Oklahoma, Nevada, Arkansas, California and Indiana, and; state Medicaid disproportionate share hospital payments in certain states including Texas and South Carolina. We are therefore particularly sensitive to potential reductions in Medicaid and other state based revenue programs as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. We can provide no assurance that reductions to revenues earned pursuant to these programs, particularly in the above-mentioned states, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.

 

The ACA substantially increases the federally and state-funded Medicaid insurance program, and authorizes states to establish federally subsidized non-Medicaid health plans for low-income residents not eligible for Medicaid starting in 2014. However, the Supreme Court has struck down portions of the ACA requiring states to expand their Medicaid programs in exchange for increased federal funding. Accordingly, many states in which we operate have not expanded Medicaid coverage to individuals at 133% of the federal poverty level. Facilities in states not opting to expand Medicaid coverage under the ACA may be additionally penalized by corresponding reductions to Medicaid disproportionate share hospital payments beginning in 2020, as discussed below. We can provide no assurance that further reductions to Medicaid revenues, particularly in the above-mentioned states, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.

 

Various State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs:

 

We incur health-care related taxes (“Provider Taxes”) imposed by states in the form of a licensing fee, assessment or other mandatory payment which are related to: (i) healthcare items or services; (ii) the provision of, or the authority to provide, the health care items or services, or; (iii) the payment for the health care items or services. Such Provider Taxes are subject to various federal regulations that limit the scope and amount of the taxes that can be levied by states in order to secure federal matching funds as part of their respective state Medicaid programs. As outlined below, we derive a related Medicaid reimbursement benefit from assessed Provider Taxes in the form of Medicaid claims based payment increases and/or lump sum Medicaid supplemental payments.  

 

 

61

Included in these Provider Tax programs are reimbursements received in connection with Texas Uncompensated Care/Upper Payment Limit program (“UC/UPL”) and 
Texas Delivery System Reform Incentive Payments program (“DSRIP”).  
Additional disclosure related to the Texas UC/UPL and DSRIP programs is provided below. 

 

Texas Uncompensated Care/Upper Payment Limit Payments:

Certain of our acute care hospitals located in various counties of Texas (Grayson, Hidalgo, Maverick, Potter and Webb) participate in Medicaid supplemental payment Section 1115 Waiver indigent care programs. Section 1115 Waiver Uncompensated Care (“UC”) payments replace the former Upper Payment Limit (“UPL”) payments. These hospitals also have affiliation agreements with third-party hospitals to provide free hospital and physician care to qualifying indigent residents of these counties. Our hospitals receive both supplemental payments from the Medicaid program and indigent care payments from third-party, affiliated hospitals. The supplemental payments are contingent on the county or hospital district making an Inter-Governmental Transfer (“IGT”) to the state Medicaid program while the indigent care payment is contingent on a transfer of funds from the applicable affiliated hospitals. However, the county or hospital district is prohibited from entering into an agreement to condition any IGT on the amount of any private hospital’s indigent care obligation.  

 

For state fiscal year 2017, Texas Medicaid continues to operate under a CMS-approved Section 1115 five-year Medicaid waiver demonstration program extended by CMS for fifteen months to December 31, 2017. During the first five years of this program that started in state fiscal year 2012, the THHSC transitioned away from UPL payments to new waiver incentive payment programs, UC and DSRIP payments. During demonstration periods ending December 31, 2017, THHSC continued to, make incentive payments under the program after certain qualifying criteria were met by hospitals. Supplemental payments are also subject to aggregate statewide caps based on CMS approved Medicaid waiver amounts.

 

On December 21, 2017, CMS approved the 1115 Waiver for the period January 1, 2018 to September 30, 2022. The Waiver continued to include UC and DSRIP payment pools with modifications and new state specific reporting deadlines that if not met by THHSC will result in material decreases in the size of the UC and DSRIP pools.  For UC during the initial two years of this renewal, the UC program will remain relatively the same in size and allocation methodology.  For year three of this waiver renewal, FFY 2020, and through FFY 2022, the size and distribution of the UC pool will be determined based on charity care costs reported to HHSC in accordance with Medicare cost report Worksheet S-10 principles.  For FFY2020 and forward, we are unable to estimate the impact on of these UC program changes on our future operating results.

 

Texas Delivery System Reform Incentive Payments:

In addition, the Texas Medicaid Section 1115 Waiver includes a DSRIP pool to incentivize hospitals and other providers to transform their service delivery practices to improve quality, health status, patient experience, coordination, and cost-effectiveness. DSRIP pool payments are incentive payments to hospitals and other providers that develop programs or strategies to enhance access to health care, increase the quality of care, the cost-effectiveness of care provided and the health of the patients and families served. In May, 2014, CMS formally approved specific DSRIP projects for certain of our hospitals for demonstration years 3 to 5 (our facilities did not materially participate in the DSRIP pool during demonstration years 1 or 2). DSRIP payments are contingent on the hospital meeting certain pre-determined milestones, metrics and clinical outcomes. Additionally, DSRIP payments are contingent on a governmental entity providing an IGT for the non-federal share component of the DSRIP payment. THHSC generally approves DSRIP reported metrics, milestones and clinical outcomes on a semi-annual basis in June and December.  Under the CMS approval noted above, the Waiver renewal requires the transition of the DSRIP program to one focused on "health system performance measurement and improvement." THHSC must submit a transition plan describing "how it will further develop its delivery system reforms without DSRIP funding and/or phase out DSRIP funded activities and meet mutually agreeable milestones to demonstrate its ongoing progress."  The size of the DSRIP pool will remain unchanged for the initial two years of the waiver renewal with unspecified decreases in years three and four of the renewal, FFY 2020 and 2021, respectively.  In FFY 2022, DSRIP funding under the waiver is eliminated. For FFY2020 and 2021, we are unable to estimate the impact of these DSRIP program changes on its operating results.  For FFY 2022, we will no longer receive DSRIP funds due to the elimination of this funding source by CMS in the Waiver renewal.

 

Summary of Amounts Related To The Above-Mentioned Various State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs: 

The following table summarizes the revenues, Provider Taxes and net benefit related to each of the above-mentioned Medicaid supplemental programs for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. The Provider Taxes are recorded in other operating expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income as included herein.  

 

 

62

We estimate that our aggregate net benefit from the Texas and various other state Medicaid supplemental payment programs will approximate $156 million (net of Provider Taxes of $172 million) during the year ended December 31, 2018. This estimate is based upon various terms and conditions that are out of our control including, but not limited to, the states’/
CMS’s continued approval of the programs and the applicable hospital district or county making IGTs consistent with 2016 levels. Future changes to these terms and conditions could materially reduce our net benefit derived from the programs which could have a material adverse impact on our future consolidated results of operations.  In addition, 
Provider Taxes are governed by both federal and state laws and are subject to future legislative changes that, if reduced from current rates in several states, could have a material adverse impact on our future consolidated results of operations.

Texas and South Carolina Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital Payments:

Hospitals that have an unusually large number of low-income patients (i.e., those with a Medicaid utilization rate of at least one standard deviation above the mean Medicaid utilization, or having a low income patient utilization rate exceeding 25%) are eligible to receive a DSH adjustment. Congress established a national limit on DSH adjustments. Although this legislation and the resulting state broad-based provider taxes have affected the payments we receive under the Medicaid program, to date the net impact has not been materially adverse. 

Upon meeting certain conditions and serving a disproportionately high share of Texas’ and South Carolina’s low income patients, five of our facilities located in Texas and one facility located in South Carolina received additional reimbursement from each state’s DSH fund. The South Carolina and Texas DSH programs were renewed for each state’s 2018 DSH fiscal year (covering the period of October 1, 2017 through September 30, 2018). 

In connection with these DSH programs, included in our financial results was an aggregate of approximately $34 million during 2017, $39 million during 2016 and $36 million during 2015.  We expect the aggregate reimbursements to our hospitals pursuant to the Texas and South Carolina 2018 fiscal year programs to be approximately $36 million.  

The ACA and subsequent federal legislation provides for a significant reduction in Medicaid disproportionate share payments beginning in federal fiscal year 2020 (see below in 
Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform-Medicaid Revisions
 for additional disclosure). The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services is to determine the amount of Medicaid DSH payment cuts imposed on each state based on a defined methodology. As Medicaid DSH payments to states will be cut, consequently, payments to Medicaid-participating providers, including our hospitals in Texas and South Carolina, will be reduced in the coming years. 
Based on the CMS proposed rule published in July, 2017, Medicaid DSH payments in South Carolina and Texas could be reduced by approximately 20% and 14%, respectively, over the prior federal fiscal year. 

 

Nevada SPA:

 

 

63

In Nevada, CMS approved a state plan amendment (“SPA”) in August, 2014 that implemented a hospital supplemental payment program retroactive to January 1, 2014. This SPA has been approved for additional state fiscal years including the 2018 fiscal year covering the period of July 1, 2017 through June 30, 2018. 

 

In connection with this program, included in our financial results was approximately $21 million during 2017, $14 million during 2016 and $10 million during 2015.  Assuming the program is approved for the state’s 2019 fiscal year, we estimate that our reimbursements pursuant to this program will approximate $22 million during the year ended December 31, 2018.   

 

California SPA:

 

In California, CMS issued formal approval of the 2017-19 Hospital Fee Program in December, 2017 retroactive to January 1, 2017 through June 30, 2019. This approval included the Medicaid inpatient and outpatient fee-for-service supplemental payments and the overall provider tax structure but did not yet include the approval of the managed care payment component. Upon approval by CMS, the managed care payment component will consist of two categories of payments, “pass-through” payments and “directed” payments. The pass-through payments will be similar in nature to the prior Hospital Fee Program payment method whereas the directed payment method will be based on actual concurrent hospital Medicaid managed care in-network patient volume.  The timing of CMS approval of the managed care payment component is uncertain.  We are unable to estimate the impact of the managed care component of the Hospital Fee program but it could result in a material favorable impact on our operating results in 2018 and 2019.  The 2017 impact of the California supplemental payment program is included in the above 
State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Program
 table. 

 

Risk Factors Related To State Supplemental Medicaid Payments:

As outlined above, we receive substantial reimbursement from multiple states in connection with various supplemental Medicaid payment programs. The states include, but are not limited to, Texas, Mississippi, Illinois, Nevada, Arkansas, California and Indiana. Failure to renew these programs beyond their scheduled termination dates, failure of the public hospitals to provide the necessary IGTs for the states’ share of the DSH programs, failure of our hospitals that currently receive supplemental Medicaid revenues to qualify for future funds under these programs, or reductions in reimbursements, could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.

 

In April, 2016, CMS published its final Medicaid Managed Care Rule which explicitly permits but phases out the use of pass-through payments (including supplemental payments) by Medicaid Managed Care Organizations (“MCO”) to hospitals over ten years but allows for a transition of the pass-through payments into value-based payment structures, delivery system reform initiatives or payments tied to services under a MCO contract.  Since we are unable to determine the financial impact of this aspect of the final rule, we can provide no assurance that the final rule will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations.

 

Massachusetts Health Safety Net Care Pool (“SNCP”)

Included in our 2017 financial results was a $7 million pre-tax charge incurred to establish a reserve related to Massachusetts Health SNCP payments received by certain of our behavioral health facilities during the period October, 2014 through December, 2016.  SNCP payments are made by Massachusetts under the current CMS approved Section 1115 Medicaid Waiver available to Institutions of Medical Disease.  During the second quarter of 2017, we received notification that such payments are subject to a retroactively applied uncompensated care cost limit protocol.   

HITECH Act:
 In July 2010, the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) published final regulations implementing the health information technology (“HIT”) provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (referred to as the “HITECH Act”). The final regulation defines the “meaningful use” of Electronic Health Records (“EHR”) and establishes the requirements for the Medicare and Medicaid EHR payment incentive programs. The final rule established an initial set of standards and certification criteria. The implementation period for these new Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments started in federal fiscal year 2011 and can end as late as 2016 for Medicare and 2021 for the state Medicaid programs. State Medicaid program participation in this federally funded incentive program is voluntary but all of the states in which our eligible hospitals operate have chosen to participate. Our acute care hospitals may qualify for these EHR incentive payments upon implementation of the EHR application assuming they meet the “meaningful use” criteria. The government’s ultimate goal is to promote more effective (quality) and efficient healthcare delivery through the use of technology to reduce the total cost of healthcare for all Americans and utilizing the cost savings to expand access to the healthcare system.

Pursuant to HITECH Act regulations, hospitals that do not qualify as a meaningful user of EHR by 2015 are subject to a reduced market basket update to the IPPS standardized amount in 2015 and each subsequent fiscal year. We believe that all of our acute care hospitals have met the applicable meaningful use criteria and therefore are not subject to a reduced market basked update to the IPPS standardized amount in federal fiscal year 2015. However, under the HITECH Act, hospitals must continue to meet the applicable 

 

64

meaningful use criteria in each fiscal year or they will be subject to a market basket update reduction in a subsequent fiscal year. Failure of our acute care hospitals to continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria would have an adverse effect on our future net revenues and results of operations.

In connection with the implementation of EHR applications at our acute care hospitals, our consolidated results of operations include net pre-tax charges of $22 million during 2017, $28 million during 2016 and $18 million during 2015. These net pre-tax charges consisted of depreciation and amortization expense related to the costs incurred for the purchase and development of the application, net of EHR incentive income (as reflected in 2016 and 2015 on our Consolidated Statements of Income) and net of the portion of the net 
expense that was attributable to noncontrolling interests. 
  

Federal regulations require that Medicare EHR incentive payments be computed based on the Medicare cost report that begins in the federal fiscal period in which a hospital meets the applicable “meaningful use” requirements. Since the annual Medicare cost report periods for each of our acute care hospitals ends on December 31
st
, we will recognize Medicare EHR incentive income for each hospital during the fourth quarter of the year in which the facility meets the “meaningful use” criteria and during the fourth quarter of each applicable subsequent year.

Managed Care:
 A significant portion of our net patient revenues are generated from managed care companies, which include health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and managed Medicare (referred to as Medicare Part C or Medicare Advantage) and Medicaid programs. In general, we expect the percentage of our business from managed care programs to continue to grow. The consequent growth in managed care networks and the resulting impact of these networks on the operating results of our facilities vary among the markets in which we operate. Typically, we receive lower payments per patient from managed care payors than we do from traditional indemnity insurers, however, during the past few years we have secured price increases from many of our commercial payors including managed care companies.

Commercial Insurance:
 Our hospitals also provide services to individuals covered by private health care insurance. Private insurance carriers typically make direct payments to hospitals or, in some cases, reimburse their policy holders, based upon the particular hospital’s established charges and the particular coverage provided in the insurance policy. Private insurance reimbursement varies among payors and states and is generally based on contracts negotiated between the hospital and the payor.

Commercial insurers are continuing efforts to limit the payments for hospital services by adopting discounted payment mechanisms, including predetermined payment or DRG-based payment systems, for more inpatient and outpatient services. To the extent that such efforts are successful and reduce the insurers’ reimbursement to hospitals and the costs of providing services to their beneficiaries, such reduced levels of reimbursement may have a negative impact on the operating results of our hospitals.

Other Sources:
 Our hospitals provide services to individuals that do not have any form of health care coverage. Such patients are evaluated, at the time of service or shortly thereafter, for their ability to pay based upon federal and state poverty guidelines, qualifications for Medicaid or other state assistance programs, as well as our local hospitals’ indigent and charity care policy. Patients without health care coverage who do not qualify for Medicaid or indigent care write-offs are offered substantial discounts in an effort to settle their outstanding account balances.

Health Care Reform:
 Listed below are the Medicare, Medicaid and other health care industry changes which are have been, or are scheduled to be, implemented as a result of the ACA.  

Implemented Medicare Reductions and Reforms:

 

65

Medicaid Revisions:

Health Insurance Revisions:

The ACA seeks to increase competition among private health insurers by providing for transparent federal and state insurance exchanges. The ACA also prohibits private insurers from adjusting insurance premiums based on health status, gender, or other specified factors. We cannot provide assurance that these provisions will not adversely affect the ability of private insurers to pay for services provided to insured patients, or that these changes will not have a negative material impact on our results of operations going forward.

Value-Based Purchasing:

There is a trend in the healthcare industry toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services. These value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. Governmental programs including Medicare and Medicaid currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition, Medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events. Many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events.

The ACA contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing. The ACA prohibits the use of federal funds under the Medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hospital acquired conditions (“HAC”). Beginning in FFY 2015, hospitals that fall into the top 25% of national risk-adjusted HAC rates for all hospitals in the previous year will receive a 1% reduction in their total Medicare payments. Additionally, hospitals with excessive readmissions for conditions designated by HHS will receive reduced payments for all inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excessive readmission standard.

The ACA also required HHS to implement a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services which became effective on October 1, 2012. The ACA requires HHS to reduce inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by a percentage beginning at 1% in FFY 2013 and increasing by 0.25% each fiscal year up to 2% in FFY 2017 and subsequent years. HHS will pool the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by HHS. HHS will determine the amount each hospital that meets or exceeds the quality performance standards will receive from the pool of dollars created by these payment reductions. In its fiscal year 2016 IPPS final rule, CMS funded the value-based purchasing program by reducing base operating DRG payment amounts to participating hospitals by 1.75%.  For FFY 2017, this reduction was increased to its maximum of 2%.

Readmission Reduction Program:

In the ACA, Congress also mandated implementation of the hospital readmission reduction program (“HRRP”). The HRRP currently assesses penalties on hospitals having excess readmission rates for heart failure, myocardial infarction, pneumonia, acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and elective total hip arthroplasty (THA) and total knee arthroplasty (TKA), excluding planned readmissions, when compared to expected rates.  In the fiscal year 2015 IPPS final rule, CMS added readmissions for coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgical procedures beginning in fiscal year 2017. The impact of HRRP has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Accountable Care Organizations:

 

66

The ACA requires HHS to establish a Medicare Shared Savings Program that promotes accountability and coordination of care through the creation of accountable care organizations (“ACOs”). The ACO program allows providers (including hospitals), physicians and other designated professionals and suppliers to voluntarily work together to invest in infrastructure and redesign delivery processes to achieve high quality and efficient delivery of services. The program is intended to produce savings as a result of improved quality and operational efficiency. ACOs that achieve quality performance standards established by HHS will be eligible to share in a portion of the amounts saved by the Medicare program.

In addition to statutory and regulatory changes to the Medicare and each of the state Medicaid programs, our operations and reimbursement may be affected by administrative rulings, new or novel interpretations and determinations of existing laws and regulations, post-payment audits, requirements for utilization review and new governmental funding restrictions, all of which may materially increase or decrease program payments as well as affect the cost of providing services and the timing of payments to our facilities. The final determination of amounts we receive under the Medicare and Medicaid programs often takes many years, because of audits by the program representatives, providers’ rights of appeal and the application of numerous technical reimbursement provisions. We believe that we have made adequate provisions for such potential adjustments. Nevertheless, until final adjustments are made, certain issues remain unresolved and previously determined allowances could become either inadequate or more than ultimately required.

 

Finally, we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. Reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results.

 

Other Operating Results

Interest Expense

Below is a schedule of our interest expense during 2017, 2016 and 2015 (amounts in thousands):

 

 

 

67

Interest expense increased $20 million during 2017 to $145 million as compared to $125 million during 2016.  The increase was due primarily to: (i) a $25 million increase in aggregate interest expense on our revolving credit, demand notes, senior notes, term loan facility and accounts receivable securitization program resulting from an increase in the average outstanding borrowings ($4.02 billion during 2017, as compared to $3.54 billion during 2016), as well as an increase in our aggregate average cost of borrowings pursuant to these facilities (3.2% during 2017, as compared to 3.0% during 2016); (ii) a $1 million decrease in capitalized interest on major projects, partially offset by; (iii) a $6 million decrease in our interest rate swap expense. 

Interest expense increased $12 million during 2016 to $125 million as compared to $113 million during 2015.  The increase was due primarily to: (i) a $15 million increase in aggregate interest expense on our revolving credit, demand notes, senior notes, term loan facility and accounts receivable securitization program due to an increase in the aggregate average outstanding borrowings ($3.54 billion during 2016 as compared to $3.14 billion during 2015), as well as an increase in our aggregate average cost of borrowings pursuant to these facilities (3.0% during 2016 as compared to 2.9% during 2015); (ii) a $2 million decrease in interest rate swap expense, resulting primarily from the 2015 maturities of previously outstanding interest rate swaps, and; (iii) other combined net decrease of $1 million. 

The aggregate average outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit, demand notes, senior notes, term loan facilities and accounts receivable securitization program were approximately $4.02 billion during 2017, $3.54 billion during 2016 and $3.14 billion during 2015. The average effective interest rate on these facilities, including amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts and designated interest rate swap expense was 3.5% during 2017 and 3.4% during each of 2016 and 2015.

 

Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rates

The effective tax rates, as calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by income before income taxes, were as follows for each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 (dollar amounts in thousands):

 

 

In May, 2016, we purchased third-party minority ownership interests in six acute care hospitals located in Las Vegas, Nevada.  Prior to that date, outside owners held various noncontrolling, minority ownership interests in eight of our acute care facilities and one behavioral health care facility. Each of these facilities are owned and operated by limited liability companies (“LLC”) or limited partnerships (“LP”). As a result, since there is no income tax liability incurred at the LLC/LP level (since it passes through to the members/partners), the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests does not include any income tax provision/benefit. When computing the provision for income taxes, as reflected on our consolidated statements of income, the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is deducted from income before income taxes since it represents the third-party members’/partners’ share of the income generated by the joint-venture entities. In addition to providing the effective tax rates, as indicated above (as calculated from dividing the provision for income taxes by the income before income taxes as reflected on the consolidated statements of income), we believe it is helpful to our investors that we also provide our effective tax rate as calculated after giving effect to the portion of our pre-tax income that is attributable to the third-party members/partners.

 

68

The effective tax rates, as calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by the difference in income before income taxes, minus net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, were as follows for each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 (dollar amounts in thousands):

 

 

The decrease in the effective tax rate during 2017, as compared to 2016 and 2015, was due primarily to the following that increased or decreased our provision for income taxes in 2017:

 

The impact of discrete tax items did not have a material impact on our provision for income taxes during 2016 or 2015. 

Previously, in 2016 and 2015, we had provided no deferred taxes related to unremitted earnings from foreign subsidiaries. As a result of the mandatory repatriation tax provisions in the TCJA-17, we recorded an accrued tax provision of $11 million as of December 31, 2017. Going forward, we anticipate repatriating only previously taxed foreign income subject to the mandatory repatriation tax and any future earnings that would qualify for a full dividend received deduction permitted under the TCJA-17 for distributions after December 31, 2017. At this time, there are no material tax effects related to future cash repatriation of our previously taxed foreign income. As such, we have not recognized a deferred tax liability related to existing undistributed earnings.

Effects of Inflation and Seasonality

Seasonality
 —Our acute care services business is typically seasonal, with higher patient volumes and net patient service revenue in the first and fourth quarters of the year. This seasonality occurs because, generally, more people become ill during the winter months, which results in significant increases in the number of patients treated in our hospitals during those months.

Inflation 
—Inflation has not had a material impact on our results of operations over the last three years. However, since the healthcare industry is very labor intensive and salaries and benefits are subject to inflationary pressures, as are supply and other costs, we cannot predict the impact that future economic conditions may have on our ability to contain future expense increases. Our ability to pass on increased costs associated with providing healthcare to Medicare and Medicaid patients is limited due to various federal, state and local laws which have been enacted that, in certain cases, limit our ability to increase prices. We believe, however, that through adherence to cost containment policies, labor management and reasonable price increases, the effects of inflation on future operating margins should be manageable.

 

69

Liquidity

Year ended December 31, 2017 as compared to December 31, 2016:

Net cash provided by operating activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.183 billion during 2017 as compared to $1.334 billion during 2016. The net decrease of $151 million was primarily attributable to the following:

Days sales outstanding (“DSO”):
  Our DSO are calculated by dividing our net revenue by the number of days in the year. The result is divided into the accounts receivable balance the end of the year. Our DSO were 53 days at each of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.

Our accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 include amounts due from Illinois of approximately $25 million and $38 million, respectively. Collection of the outstanding receivables continues to be delayed due to state budgetary and funding pressures. Approximately $8 million as of December 31, 2017 and $25 million as of December 31, 2016, of the receivables due from Illinois were outstanding in excess of 60 days, as of each respective date. Although the accounts receivable due from Illinois could remain outstanding for the foreseeable future, since we expect to eventually collect all amounts due to us, no related reserves have been established in our consolidated financial statements. However, we can provide no assurance that we will eventually collect all amounts due to us from Illinois. Failure to ultimately collect all outstanding amounts due to us from Illinois would have an adverse impact on our future consolidated results of operations and cash flows.

Net cash used in investing activities

Net cash used in investing activities was $624 million during 2017 and $1.187 billion during 2016

     2017:

The $624 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2017 consisted of:

     2016:

The $1.187 billion of net cash used in investing activities during 2016 consisted of:

 

70

Net cash used in financing activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $519 million during 2017 and $171 million during 2016.

2017:

The $519 million of net cash used in financing activities during 2017 consisted of the following:

2016:

The $171 million of net cash used in financing activities during 2016 consisted of the following:

 

71

 

Year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to December 31, 2015:

Net cash provided by operating activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.334 billion during 2016 as compared to $1.068 billion during 2015. The net increase of $266 million was primarily attributable to the following:

Net cash used in investing activities

Net cash used in investing activities was $1.187 billion during 2016 and $913 million during 2015.  The factors contributing to the $1.187 billion of net cash used in investing activities during 2016 are detailed above.

     2015:

The $913 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2015 consisted of:

Net cash used in financing activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $171 million during 2016 and $125 million during 2015.  The factors contributing to the $171 million of net cash used in financing activities during 2016 are detailed above.

2015:

The $125 million of net cash used in financing activities during 2015 consisted of the following:

 

72

2018 Expected Capital Expenditures:

During 2018, we expect to spend approximately $600 million to $625 million on capital expenditures which includes expenditures for capital equipment, renovations and new projects at existing hospitals. Approximately $280 million of our 2018 expected capital expenditures relates to completion of projects that are in progress as of December 31, 2017. We believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. We expect to finance all capital expenditures and acquisitions with internally generated funds and/or additional funds, as discussed below.

Capital Resources

Credit Facilities and Outstanding Debt Securities

On June  7, 2016, we entered into a  Fifth Amendment (the “Fifth Amendment”) to our credit agreement dated as of November 15, 2010, as amended on March 15, 2011, September 21, 2012, May 16, 2013 and August 7, 2014, among UHS, as borrower, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, as lenders (“Credit Agreement”). The Fifth Amendment increased the size of the term loan A facility by $200 million and those proceeds were utilized to repay outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility of the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement, as amended, which is scheduled to mature in August, 2019, consists of: (i) an $800 million revolving credit facility ($403 million of borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2017), and; (ii) a term loan A facility with $1.775 billion of borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2017.

Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at our election at either (1) the ABR rate which is defined as the rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the lender’s prime rate, (b) the weighted average of the federal funds rate, plus 0.5% and (c) one month LIBOR rate plus 1%, in each case, plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 0.50% to 1.25% for revolving credit and term loan-A borrowings, or (2) the one, two, three or six month LIBOR rate (at our election), plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 1.50% to 2.25% for revolving credit and term loan-A borrowings. As of December 31, 2017, the applicable margins were 0.50% for ABR-based loans and 1.50% for LIBOR-based loans under the revolving credit and term loan-A facilities.

As of December 31, 2017, we had $403 million of borrowings outstanding pursuant to the terms of our $800 million revolving credit facility and we had $329 million of available borrowing capacity net of $33 million of outstanding letters of credit and $35 million of outstanding borrowings pursuant to a short-term, on-demand credit facility. The revolving credit facility includes a $125 million sub-limit for letters of credit. The Credit Agreement is collateralized by certain assets of the Company (which generally excludes asset classes such as substantially all of the patient-related accounts receivable of our acute care hospitals, certain real estate assets and assets held in joint-ventures with third-parties) and our material subsidiaries and guaranteed by our material subsidiaries.

Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, term loan-A installment payments of approximately $22 million per quarter commenced during the fourth quarter of 2016 and are scheduled through June, 2019.  Previously, approximately $11 million of quarterly installment payments were made from the fourth quarter of 2014 through the third quarter of 2016.  

In July, 2017, we amended our accounts receivable securitization program (“Securitization”) with a group of conduit lenders and liquidity banks to increase the borrowing capacity to $440 million from $400 million previously.  Pursuant to the terms of our Securitization program, on which the scheduled maturity date of December, 2018 remained unchanged, substantially all of the patient-related accounts receivable of our acute care hospitals (“Receivables”) serve as collateral for the outstanding borrowings. We have accounted for this Securitization as borrowings. We maintain effective control over the Receivables since, pursuant to the terms of the Securitization, the Receivables are sold from certain of our subsidiaries to special purpose entities that are wholly-owned by us. The Receivables, however, are owned by the special purpose entities, can be used only to satisfy the debts of the wholly-owned special purpose entities, and thus are not available to us except through our ownership interest in the special purpose entities. The wholly-owned special purpose entities use the Receivables to collateralize the loans obtained from the group of third-party conduit lenders and liquidity banks. The group of third-party conduit lenders and liquidity banks do not have recourse to us beyond the assets of the wholly-owned special purpose entities that securitize the loans. At December 31, 2017, we had $420 million of outstanding borrowings pursuant to the terms of the Securitization, which are included in current maturities of long-term debt as of that date, and $20 million of available borrowing capacity.  

 

73

As of December 31, 2017, we had combined aggregate principal of $1.4 billion from the following senior secured notes:

Interest is payable on the 2019 Notes and the 2022 Notes on February 1 and August 1 of each year until the maturity date of August 1, 2019 for the 2019 Notes and August 1, 2022 for the 2022 Notes.  Interest on the 2026 Notes is payable on June 1 and December 1 until the maturity date of June 1, 2026. The 2019 Notes, 2022 Notes and 2026 Notes were offered only to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A and to non-U.S. persons outside the United States in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). The 2019 Notes, 2022 Notes and 2026 Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.

In June, 2016, we repaid the $400 million, 7.125% senior secured notes which matured on June 30, 2016.  

The average amounts outstanding during each of years 2017, 2016 and 2015 under the current and prior Credit Agreements, demand notes and accounts receivable securitization programs was $2.6 billion, $2.3 billion and 
$2.1 billion
, respectively, with corresponding interest rates of 2.5%, 2.0% and 1.7%, respectively, including commitment and facility fees. The maximum amounts outstanding at any month-end were $2.7 billion in 2017, $2.7 billion in 2016 and $2.3 billion in 2015. The effective interest rate on our current and prior Credit Agreements, accounts receivable securitization programs, and demand notes, which includes the respective interest expense, commitment and facility fees, designated interest rate swaps expense and amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts, was 2.8% in 2017, 2.6% in 2016 and 2.4% in 2015. 

Our Credit Agreement includes a material adverse change clause that must be represented at each draw. The Credit Agreement contains covenants that include a limitation on sales of assets, mergers, change of ownership, liens and indebtedness, transactions with affiliates, dividends and stock repurchases; and requires compliance with financial covenants including maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios. We are in compliance with all required covenants as of December 31, 2017.

At December 31, 2017, the net carrying value and fair value of our debt were approximately $4.0 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2016, the carrying value and fair value of our debt were each approximately $4.1 billion.  The fair value of our debt was computed based upon quotes received from financial institutions. We consider these to be “level 2” in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with debt instruments.

Our total debt as a percentage of total capitalization was 45% at December 31, 2017 and 48% at December 31, 2016.

We expect to finance all capital expenditures and acquisitions, pay dividends and potentially repurchase shares of our common stock utilizing internally generated and additional funds. Additional funds may be obtained through: (i) borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility or through refinancing the existing revolving credit agreement; (ii) the issuance of other long-term debt, and/or; (iii) the issuance of equity. We believe that our operating cash flows, cash and cash equivalents, available borrowing capacity under our $800 million revolving credit facility and $440 million accounts receivable securitization program, as well as access to the capital markets, provide us with sufficient capital resources to fund our operating, investing and financing requirements for the next twelve months. However, in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. Our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of December 31, 2017 we were party to certain off balance sheet arrangements consisting of standby letters of credit and surety bonds which totaled $120 million consisting of: (i) $113 million related to our self-insurance programs, and; (ii) $7 million of other debt and public utility guarantees. 

Obligations under operating leases for real property, real property master leases and equipment amount to $402 million as of December 31, 2017. The real property master leases are leases for buildings on or near hospital property for which we guarantee a 

 

74

certain level of rental income. We sublease space in these buildings and any amounts received from these subleases are offset against the expense. In addition, we lease three hospital facilities from Universal Health Realty Trust (the “Trust”) with terms expiring in 2021. These leases contain up to two 5-year renewal options. We also lease two free-standing emergency departments and space in certain medical office buildings which are owned by the Trust.  In addition, we lease the real property of certain other facilities from non-related parties as indicated in