” and throughout Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10‑K (“Form 10-K”), and in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results. The information provided in this Form 10‑K is based upon the facts and circumstances known as of the date of this report, and any forward-looking statements made by us in this Form 10‑K speak only as of the date on which they are made. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements after the date of filing this Form 10-K with the SEC to reflect events or circumstances after such date, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Our investor presentation regarding the financial results for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2022 is available and accessible on our Paychex Investor Relations page at https://investor.paychex.com . Information available on our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this Form 10-K. We intend to make future investor presentations available exclusively on our Paychex Investor Relations page. 2 Table of Contents Item 1. Business Unless we state otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms “Paychex,” “we,” “us,” “our” and the “Company” refer to Paychex, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a leading human capital management (“HCM”) software and services company, offering integrated solutions for human resources (“HR”), payroll, benefits, and insurance services for small- to medium-sized businesses. We offer a comprehensive portfolio of technology solutions and services, supported by HR and compliance expertise, that help our clients address the evolving challenges of HR. Our purpose is to allow our customers the freedom to succeed. The workplace is evolving, and we lead the way by making complex HR, payroll, and benefits simple for our clients. Paychex incorporated in Delaware in 1979 and has a fiscal year that ends May 31st. We maintain our corporate headquarters in Rochester, New York, and serve clients throughout the U.S. and parts of Europe. As of May 31, 2022, we served greater than 730,000 payroll and PEO clients. For any organization, a key function is effective HCM, which requires both resources and expertise. Organizations are faced with complex and ever-changing requirements, including diverse and complicated federal, state, and local regulations across multiple jurisdictions. In addition, the workplace is rapidly changing as employees increasingly become mobile, work remotely, and expect a user experience similar to consumer-oriented applications. We focus on helping small- to medium-sized businesses who do not have the resources or expertise to adapt to the constantly evolving environment. Paychex offers a wide range of solutions – including fully outsourced HR, HCM software, payroll processing, retirement and insurance solutions – allowing us to customize our offering to the client's business, whether it is small or large, simple, or complex. We believe that we have the breadth of solutions to cover the spectrum of the employee life cycle, but we also allow integration with some of the most popular HR, accounting, point-of-sale, and productivity applications on the market today. Our comprehensive solutions allow our clients to manage their workforces effectively from hire to retire. We provide leading-edge HCM technology solutions, coupled with human expertise, to make complex HR, payroll, and benefits issues simple for our clients. The key features of our solutions are: • Comprehensive cloud-based platform optimized to meet the HR and payroll needs of small- and medium-sized organizations; • Streamlined workforce management that combines technology with flexible service options; • Modern, mobile, and intuitive user experience and self-service capabilities; • Scalable and customizable platform that allows clients the ability to add services as they grow; • Software as a service, or “SaaS”, delivery model that reduces total cost of ownership for our clients; and • Expertise in HR and payroll with our technology backed by over 200 compliance experts and more than 700 HR business professionals. We market our solutions through our direct and virtual sales forces which are supported by various corporate lead generation and marketing initiatives. Over 50% of our revenues are gained from our services beyond payroll processing. We focus on providing an industry-leading client experience. Company Strategy Our mission is to be the leading provider of HCM solutions for HR, payroll, benefits, and insurance by being an essential partner to small- and medium-sized businesses across the U.S. and parts of Europe. We believe that success in this mission will lead to strong, long-term financial performance. We intend to strengthen and extend our position as a leading provider through continued investments in both our technology and service offerings. Key elements of our strategy include: • Providing industry-leading, integrated technology . We continue to invest significantly in our award-winning Paychex Flex ® platform and mobility applications to increase efficiency and functionality for our clients and their employees. 3 Table of Contents • Increasing client satisfaction. Our flexible and technology-enabled service model allows us to provide a personalized experience for our clients and their employees. We continue to invest in artificial intelligence and machine learning and self-service capabilities to allow clients and their employees easy, intuitive, and flexible service how, when, and where they want it. • Expanding our leadership in HR. We have a comprehensive suite of value-added HR solutions for our clients and their employees. Our solutions include industry leading HR technology for managing client's workforce along with comprehensive HR outsourcing delivered by over 700 HR business professionals. Our unique combination of industry leading HR Technology serviced by trained HR business professionals sets us apart in the industry. We are the second largest publicly traded provider of PEO services in the U.S. • Growing our client base. We believe we operate in a significantly under-penetrated and growing market, with significant potential to expand within our current target markets. We have invested significantly in new demand generation and sales tools and expanding certain areas of our sales force. We continue to focus on sales productivity with the intent of expanding our market share across all our product lines. • Engaging in strategic acquisitions . In the past, we utilized acquisitions as a means to expand our portfolio, enter new markets or increase our scale. We continue to evaluate and monitor potential acquisitions and will utilize this when the acquisition targets are in alignment with our overall strategy. Our Solutions Our solutions bring together payroll and HCM software with HR and compliance expertise, along with flexible, personalized, and technology-enabled service capabilities. Clients have the option of doing payroll online using our SaaS technology, outsourcing to our payroll specialists, or using a combination of those solutions. Payroll is then integrated with HCM software modules for clients who have more complex HR needs. We also provide comprehensive HR outsourcing through our administrative services organization (“ASO”) and PEO solutions. The integration of leading-edge technology and flexible service options allows us to meet our clients’ needs how, when, and where they want. As the global economy continues to evolve, we remain committed to helping our clients navigate the complexity of macroeconomic challenges, legislative changes, the COVID-19 pandemic, or other factors. In the fiscal year ended May 31, 2022 (“fiscal 2022”), top challenges for employers were obtaining and retaining talent, ensuring employee welfare, introducing comprehensive and differentiated benefits offerings to meet the needs of a competitive labor market, leveraging technology to drive efficiency and support a distributed workforce, and cash flows. Product developments in fiscal 2022 designed to meet the evolving needs of employers and employees included: • Paychex Pre-Check, a self-service solution that allows employees to review their paystubs and alert their employer of discrepancies before payday. This significantly reduces errors, increasing efficiency and employee satisfaction. • Retention Insights, which utilizes predictive analytics to help identify employees that may be more likely to consider leaving. • Paychex Employee Retention Tax Credit (“ERTC”) Service, which helps businesses retroactively identify tax credits, based on wages already paid, and file amended returns to claim the credit. • Talent Dashboard, which brings retention insights, time off balances, and performance ratings together in one place. This allows employers to compare the performance rating and compensation of each job position to ensure they are rewarding employees appropriately and equitably. • Acquisition of a powerful state-of-the-art benefits administration software to help employers drive efficiencies in managing their employee benefits. • Vaccination Management, utilizing enhanced Document Management features, where employees can confidentially upload proof of vaccination or COVID-19 test results. • Additional tools that aid in talent management, including Total Compensation Summary, Pay Benchmarking, Time Off Management, Financial Wellness, etc. HCM Technology: Paychex Flex is our proprietary HCM SaaS platform that unites HR, payroll, time and attendance, and benefits processes to maximize efficiency and savings. Paychex Flex helps clients manage the employee life cycle from recruiting and hiring to retirement, providing an integrated suite of solutions including recruiting, onboarding, HR, time and attendance and 4 Table of Contents employee benefits. It utilizes a single cloud-based platform, with single client and employee records. Clients can select the modules they need and easily add on services as they grow. In addition, Paychex Flex presents function-focused analytics throughout the platform, providing HR leaders with data to make more informed business decisions. Paychex Flex uses a device-independent design throughout our HCM suite, which allows full functionality of all application components, regardless of device or screen size. We believe our Paychex mobile applications add greater value and convenience for our clients and their employees by allowing them instant access on their mobile device, and we have experienced strong growth in mobile and self-service usage over the past year. We continue to invest in Paychex Flex, making significant enhancements designed to simplify the complexity of HR. In fiscal 2022, product development focused on new products geared toward increasing digital transformation and use of technology to deliver efficiency for a distributed workforce. Our fiscal 2022 product development included enhancements to: HR and Compliance Expertise: Paychex supports its HCM software solutions with 50+ years of experience. We have over 700 HR business professionals who are dedicated to our clients and have the experience and training to provide HR best practices and advice. Our HR business partners are available to provide our ASO and PEO clients with specific guidance on HR issues. In addition, we have over 200 compliance professionals who are in real-time contact with tax agencies and regulators to understand upcoming or newly enacted laws and regulations and advocate for our clients’ interests. The contributions of these compliance experts are intended to ensure that our HCM solutions are updated timely to adhere to regulations and to help our clients stay in compliance. Technology-Enabled Client Service: Paychex Flex also provides technology-enabled service with options that include self-service, a 24/7 dedicated service center, an individual payroll specialist, and integrated service via a multi-product service center. In addition, medium-sized clients can utilize a relationship manager for more personalized service. This flexible platform services our small- to medium-sized clients and a portion of our PEO business. Within Paychex Flex there is embedded technology to assist clients. The Paychex Flex Intelligence Engine includes the Flex Assistant, a customer service chatbot that can answer approximately 680 commonly asked questions and offer access to over 1,200 instructional resources. Our Paychex Flex Intelligence Engine allows clients to elect their preference for learning – via written how-to-documents, tutorial-style video vignettes, or a guided interactive tour. At any time, a live Paychex agent is just a click away, with the entire chat conversation available real-time to provide a better, more personalized service experience. The platform embeds self-service capabilities that empower client employees to manage their HR and benefits information from any location, on any device. These self-service capabilities allow for greater access and convenience for client employees and greater productivity for clients. Our Clients Paychex has HR solutions to fit the needs of any small- to medium-sized business, from do-it-yourself payroll to comprehensive HR outsourcing. The target market for our integrated HCM solutions is small- to medium-sized businesses. Within this space, we serve a diverse client base operating in a broad range of industries throughout the U.S. and parts of Europe. The flexibility and scalability of our solutions allow our clients to define the solution that best meets their needs and to grow within the Paychex Flex platform. We utilize service agreements and arrangements with clients that generally do not contain specified contract periods and may be terminated by either party with 30-days notice of termination. For fiscal 2022, client retention was at approximately 84% of our beginning client base, remaining near record levels. We support our small-business clients, reducing the complexity and risk of running their own payroll, while ensuring greater accuracy with up-to-date tax rates and regulatory information. We simplify their payroll with a combination of our solutions and customer service options for a quick and easy payday. Clients may choose to have our service team handle everything for them, or process payroll themselves utilizing our proprietary, robust SaaS Paychex Flex platform and our SurePayroll ® SaaS-based products. Both products allow users to process payroll when they want, how they want, and on any device (desktop, tablet, and mobile phone). 5 Table of Contents Our medium-sized clients generally have more complex payroll and employee benefit needs, though with the environment of increasing regulations, we believe the need for HR outsourcing services has been moving down-market. Any of our clients on Paychex Flex can opt for the integrated suite of HCM solutions, which allows clients to choose the services and software that will meet the needs of their business. While Paychex Flex is our primary SaaS-based platform utilized by the majority of our clients for their HCM needs, there are some clients that use other platforms, including SurePayroll clients, certain PEO clients, and some smaller tenured clients. Both our small- and medium-sized clients can choose one of our comprehensive HR outsourcing services, which include ASO and PEO solutions, and participate in our benefits offerings, which include our insurance and retirement services. Our insurance services simplify the insurance process to make it easy to find plans with the features and affordability to meet the client’s needs. Our retirement services product line offers many plan design options to meet the client’s requirements, as well as investment options. Description of Solutions Within our HCM solutions we offer a comprehensive portfolio of products and services that allow our clients to meet their diverse HR and payroll needs. Clients can select services on an á la carte basis or as part of various product bundles. Our offerings often leverage the information gathered in our base payroll processing service, allowing us to provide comprehensive outsourcing services covering the HCM spectrum. Our portfolio of solutions is comprised of the following: Management Solutions: • Payroll processing services: Our payroll processing services include the calculation, preparation, and delivery of employee payroll checks; production of internal accounting records and management reports; preparation of federal, state, and local payroll tax returns; and collection and remittance of clients’ payroll obligations. • Payroll tax administration services: Payroll tax administration services provide for accurate preparation and timely filing of quarterly and year-end tax returns, as well as the electronic transfer of funds to the applicable federal, state, and local tax or regulatory agencies. In connection with these services, we electronically collect payroll taxes from clients’ bank accounts, typically on payday, prepare and file the applicable tax returns, and remit taxes to the applicable tax or regulatory agencies on the respective due dates. These taxes are typically paid between one and 30 days after receipt of collections from clients, with some items extending up to 90 days. We handle regulatory correspondence, amendments, and penalty and interest disputes. • Employee payment services: Our employee payment services provide an employer the option of paying their employees by direct deposit, payroll debit card, a check drawn on a Paychex account (Readychex ® ), or a check drawn on the employer’s account and electronically signed by us. For each of the first three methods, we electronically collect net payroll from the clients’ bank accounts, typically one business day before payday, and provide payment to the employees on payday. Our Readychex service provides a cost-effective solution that offers the benefit of convenient, one-step payroll account reconciliation for employers. We also allow employers to opt for more flexible pay options. Same day ACH functionality is also available for clients using direct deposit, allowing employers the flexibility to pay employees via direct deposit on the same day they initiate payroll. In addition, we are giving business owners the ability to leverage real-time payments to process payroll and deliver net pay to their employees immediately for time worked. Pay-on-demand functionality enables an employee to request access to a portion of earned pay before the scheduled pay date, which is deposited into a traditional bank account or a third-party account. 6 Table of Contents • Regulatory compliance services: We offer new-hire reporting services, which enable clients to comply with federal and state requirements to report information on newly hired employees. This information aids the government in enforcing child support orders and minimizes fraudulent unemployment and workers’ compensation insurance claims. Our garnishment processing service provides deductions from employees’ pay, forwards payments to third-party agencies, including those that require electronic payments, and tracks the obligations to fulfillment. These services enable employers to comply with legal requirements and reduce the risk of penalties. We also offer comprehensive solutions to help employers and employees with certain mandates under the Affordable Care Act (“ACA”), which sets forth specific coverage and reporting requirements that employers must meet. • HR Solutions (ASO): Our ASO offers businesses a combined package that includes payroll, employer compliance, HR and employee benefits administration, risk management outsourcing, and the on-site availability of a professionally trained HR representative, among other services. Paychex HR Essentials is an ASO product that provides support to our clients over the phone or online to help manage employee-related topics. • Retirement solutions administration: Our retirement solutions product line offers a variety of options to clients, including 401(k) plans, 401(k) SIMPLE plans, SIMPLE IRAs, 401(k) plans with safe harbor provisions, owner-only 401(k) plans, Pooled Employer Plans, profit sharing plans, and money purchase plans. These services provide plan implementation, ongoing compliance with government regulations, employee and employer reporting, participant and employer online access, electronic funds transfer, and other administrative services. Auto enrollment is an optional plan feature that allows employers to automatically enroll employees in their company’s 401(k) plan and increase overall plan participation. Clients may choose from a group of pre-defined fund selections or customize their investment options within their plan. We are the largest 401(k) recordkeeper for small businesses in the U.S. Our large-market retirement services clients include relationships with financial advisors. • HR administration solutions: We offer cloud-based HR administration software for employee benefits management and administration, time and attendance solutions, recruiting, and onboarding. These services include: • Paychex HR Online offers powerful tools for managing employee personnel information, performance management, HR compliance and reporting. Our Learning Management solution complements our performance management tool. When combined with our workflow and approval engine, we offer clients the flexibility to capture ongoing performance feedback, recommend and enroll employees in specific training courses, and leverage automated workflows to track progress and approve compensation changes tied to performance. • Digital communication solutions, including Paychex Flex HR Connect and HR Conversations, which helps strengthen connections and keep workers engaged no matter their work location. Paychex Flex HR Connect provides the ability to digitally submit questions, requests, and incident reports directly to HR through an easy-to-use workflow. HR Conversations enables managers and HR leaders to initiate communications with employees, and enhancements to performance assessments allow for 360-degree feedback digitally within the tool. • Benefits administration software that manages the employee-benefit enrollment process for both open-enrollment and life events. • Time and attendance products, including our integrated Paychex Flex Time software, provide timekeeping, scheduling, and workforce analytics. The InVision TM IRIS Time Clock, a biometric clock that scans the iris, provides fast and accurate time capture. Paychex Flex Time also works with wearable technology to allow for employees to clock in and out using their smartwatch. • Applicant tracking suite provides technology that streamlines, simplifies, and drives the applicant workflow and onboarding process for companies of all sizes. • Other HR services and products: We offer the outsourcing of plan administration under section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code, allowing employees to use pre-tax dollars to pay for certain health insurance benefits and health and dependent care expenses not covered by insurance. All required implementation, administration, compliance, claims processing and reimbursement, and coverage tests are provided with these services. We offer state unemployment insurance services, which provide clients with prompt processing for all claims, appeals, determinations, change statements, and requests for separation documents. 7 Table of Contents • Business services: We offer various business services for small- to medium-sized businesses. Our wholly owned subsidiary, Paychex Advance, LLC, provides a portfolio of services to the temporary staffing industry, including payroll funding (via the purchase of accounts receivable) and outsourcing services, which include payroll processing, invoicing, and tax preparation. Paychex Promise, a subscription-based service, offers protection against payroll interruptions and solutions to address routine challenges of running a successful business. The primary offering is payroll protection, which extends the collection of payroll funds from a client’s bank account by seven days without interruption of service or charges for insufficient funds. Employee Retention Tax Credit Service, which proactively helps businesses retroactively identify tax credits available under the COVID-19 Cares Act, based on wages already paid, and file amended returns to claim the credit. In addition, through partnerships with third-party providers, we provide clients opportunities for services such as payment processing services, financial fitness programs, and a small-business loan resource center. PEO and Insurance Solutions: • PEO solutions: Our licensed PEO subsidiaries offer businesses a combined package that includes payroll, employer compliance, HR and employee benefits administration, risk management outsourcing, and the on-site availability of a professionally trained HR representative, among other services. What differentiates our PEO solutions from our ASO solutions is that we serve as a co-employer of our clients’ employees and assume the risks and rewards of certain workers’ compensation insurance and certain health insurance offerings. We are certified under the Small Business Efficiency Act to provide PEO solutions. We offer the PEO Protection Plus Package, which helps business owners protect their bottom line from unforeseen costs, including cyberattacks and employee lawsuits, as exposure to these risks rapidly increased due to the COVID-19 pandemic. • Insurance solutions: Our licensed insurance agency, Paychex Insurance Agency, Inc., provides insurance through a variety of carriers, allowing employers to expand their employee benefit and corporate offerings at an affordable cost. Insurance offerings include property and casualty coverage such as workers’ compensation, business-owner policies, cyber security protection, commercial auto, and health and benefits coverage, including health, dental, vision, and life. Our insurance services simplify the insurance process to make it easy to find plans with the features and affordability to meet the client’s needs. With access to numerous top national and regional insurance carriers, our professional insurance agents have access to a wide selection of plans from which they can best match the insurance needs of small businesses. Additionally, clients have the option to integrate their insurance plans with Paychex payroll processing for easy, accurate plan administration. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our services primarily through our direct sales force based in the markets we serve. Our direct sales force includes sales representatives who have defined geographical territories and specialize within our portfolio of services. Our sales representatives are also supported by marketing, advertising, public relations, trade shows, and telemarketing programs. Our virtual sales force manages inbound sales leads for the under twenty employee space, sales in areas without a direct sales force presence, and sales of various ancillary services. In addition to our direct selling and marketing efforts, we utilize other indirect sales channels such as our relationships with existing clients, certified public accountants (“CPAs”), and banks for new client referrals. More than 50% of our new small-market payroll clients (excluding business acquisitions) come from these referral sources. Our dedicated business development group drives sales through banking, national associations, and franchise channels. We also utilize digital marketing as a means to market our services. We have a long-standing partnership with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) as the preferred payroll provider for its AICPA Business Solutions TM Program. Our current partnership agreement with the AICPA is in place through September 2023. We also partner with numerous state CPA society organizations. Our website is available at www.paychex.com. It is a cost-efficient channel that serves as a source of leads and new sales, while complementing the efforts of our direct and virtual sales forces. The website allows us to market to existing and prospective clients that want to learn more about our products and services and offers information about our core lines of business: human resources (www.paychex.com/human-resources), payroll (www.paychex.com/payroll), benefits (www.paychex.com/employee-benefits), and insurance (www.paychex.com/business-insurance). 8 Table of Contents Paychex also builds on its reputation as an expert in the HCM industry by providing education and assistance primarily to clients and the CPA community. We provide free webinars, podcasts, white papers, and other information on our website to inform existing and prospective clients on the impact of regulatory change as well as HR and business best practices. Paychex WORX, available at www.paychex.com/worx, is a digital destination for insightful resources useful for businesses at every stage, from entrepreneur to enterprise. Paychex WORX highlights our expertise and ability to help businesses of all sizes with a wide range of HR and financial information for current clients and prospects alike. We also track current regulatory issues that impact the business community and provide regulatory updates. We issue small business trend reports through our Paychex | IHS Markit Small Business Employment Watch. Our Paychex Accountant Knowledge Center is a free online resource available through our website that brings valuable information and time-saving online tools to accounting professionals. Through Paychex Flex, AccountantHQ offers access to authorized client payroll and HR data and key account contacts, along with an extensive accountant resource library. AccountantHQ drives efficiency by putting accountants in the best position possible to easily access critical client payroll and HR data, as well as powerful reporting tools, including our Paycheck Protection Program loan forgiveness estimator. Markets and Competition We remain focused on servicing small- to medium-sized businesses based upon the growth potential that we believe exists in the markets we serve. Our internal database source indicates that in the U.S., there are approximately 8 million employer firms in our target markets. The market for HCM services is highly competitive and fragmented. We have one primary national competitor and we also compete with other national, international, regional, local, and online service providers. In addition to traditional payroll processing and HR service providers, we compete with in-house payroll and HR systems and departments. Payroll and HR systems and software are sold by many vendors. Our products also compete with a variety of providers of HR services, such as retirement services companies, insurance companies, HR and benefits consulting firms, and national and regional PEOs. Competition in the payroll processing and HR services industry is primarily based on service responsiveness, product quality and reputation, including ease of use and accessibility of technology, breadth of service and product offerings, and price. We believe we are competitive in each of these areas. We believe that our leading-edge technology and mobility applications, combined with personalized service provided by industry professionals and our technology-enabled service capabilities, distinguishes us from our competitors. Software Maintenance and Development The ever-changing mandates of federal, state, and local tax and regulatory agencies require us to regularly update our proprietary software to provide payroll and HR services to our clients. We are continually engaged in developing enhancements to and maintaining our various software platforms to meet the changing requirements of our clients and the marketplace. We continue to enhance our SaaS solutions and mobility applications to offer our users an integrated and unified experience. Continued enhancement of the client and client employee experience is important to our future success. Human Capital We believe our ability to attract and retain qualified employees in all areas of our business is critical to our future success and growth. We strive to foster a diverse, equitable, and inclusive (“DE&I”) workplace; attract, retain, and develop talented employees; and keep them safe. For detailed information regarding our human capital activities, we encourage investors to visit our Corporate Responsibility website page at https://www.paychex.com/corporate/corporate-responsibility. We have also made our Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) report available on our website. The information contained on our website and in our CSR report is not and should not be viewed as being incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Our Employees: As of May 31, 2022, we employed approximately 16,000 people, primarily in the U.S. and on a full-time basis. None of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced a strike or similar work stoppage, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. 9 Table of Contents Paychex Culture : Our core cultural values (“Paychex Values”) are designed to guide decision making aligned to the expectations of clients, stockholders, regulators, employees, and the multiple communities in which we operate and to reflect our continuing commitment to DE&I. The Paychex Values are: Each of these values guide our decision-making process and are critical to our ongoing success. All employees are required to verify their understanding and observance of these values during our annual “Right Way” training, review these values with management during periodic performance discussions, and are further encouraged to attend ongoing training during the year. Volunteer “Culture Champions” throughout the Company also help promote these values daily. We encourage employee feedback through our employee engagement surveys, as described below. This approach empowers our employees and allows us to make a positive impact in the communities we work and serve. As a result of our commitment to these principles, in 2022 we were recognized by Ethisphere, a global leader in defining and advancing the standards of ethical business practices, as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies. We have achieved this recognition 14 times, and consecutively since 2012. Talent Acquisition and Development: We compete for talent along with our direct competitors and other companies in the geographic areas we serve. We invest significant resources to attract and retain top talent. Our Talent Acquisition Team, in conjunction with certain third-party partners, have developed comprehensive processes to identify and recruit accomplished professionals. Once hired, our world-class Training Department provides functional training for payroll and HCM specialists and sales associates and also offers personal training, professional development, and leadership-development programs. As a result of our efforts, we have been recognized as one of the top training organizations in the world with a 2022 Training APEX Award presented by Training magazine. Paychex ranked number five on the list, its highest-ever ranking after 21 consecutive appearances, including a number seven ranking in 2021. Comprehensive Compensation and Benefits: We are committed to providing a fair wage and a total rewards package that allows our employees to be their best in every area of their lives. We regularly review employee salaries to ensure we are competitive in the industry and offer financial benefits such as a 401(k) plan, employee stock purchase plan, tuition assistance, scholarships for children of employees, and financial education. We are also committed to rewarding employees with comprehensive and competitive wellness benefits and well-being programs which include medical, prescription, dental, and vision insurance, short- and long-term disability, employee assistance program, paid family leave, and a variety of well-being programs. For fiscal 2022, compensation-related expenses accounted for approximately 59% of our total expenses. Employee Well-being Initiatives: In addition to providing a comprehensive compensation and benefits package, we are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees. Healthier employees are at lower risk of injury from workplace related exposures, perform work more safely with lower rates of absenteeism, and experience better job performance. Our well-being program is a robust and comprehensive program focusing on the physical, emotional, community, career, and financial health of our employees. In 2022, Paychex was recognized by the Business Group on Health with the Best Employers: Excellence in Health & Well-being Award for our commitment to advancing employee well-being through comprehensive and innovative benefits offerings. This marks the ninth time Paychex has earned such recognition from the Business Group on Health. Our award-winning well-being initiatives offer a wide variety of services, tools, and resources that can help employees achieve their health goals using a holistic approach. In addition, we sponsor onsite health screenings, Red Cross blood donation events, flu vaccination clinics, vaping and tobacco cessation, weight management, resiliency training, meditation and yoga classes, and a variety of other programs. Similar to our Culture Champions, we also promote the use of “Well-Being Champions” - Paychex employees who serve as a liaison between the Employee Well-Being Program and their team members. Our employees’ financial well-being is equally important, so we have developed programs for financial education and support. We maintain procedures for events such as fires, severe weather, medical emergencies, and active shooters, as well as other important information related to general workforce safety. In recognizing the ever-growing diversity of our workplace, we announced the Paychex Culture Day in May 2022. It is an additional paid day off for employees to celebrate and recognize a holiday that is significant to them. This is just one of the many ways we celebrate our unique heritages, and it reflects our Company's commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion and flexibility. 10 Table of Contents Employee Engagement : We regularly ask our employees to share their views on working at Paychex through company-wide engagement surveys. Facilitated internally by our Human Resources Organizational Development Team, the survey methodology is periodically updated to reflect currents trends and issues including company direction and strategy, DE&I, individual development, collaboration, and our Paychex Values. A third-party administers the survey in order to maintain confidentiality of responses. We use the survey responses to help inform management and assist in developing programs and policies that will maintain and promote Paychex Values. Intellectual Property We own or license and use a number of trademarks, trade names, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, computer programs and software, and other intellectual property rights. Collectively, our intellectual property rights are material to the conduct of our business. Where it is determined to be appropriate, we take measures to protect our intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements or policies with employees, vendors, and others; license agreements with licensees and licensors of intellectual property; and registration of certain trademarks. We believe that the “Paychex” name, trademark, and logo are of material importance to us. Seasonality There is no significant seasonality to our business. However, during our third fiscal quarter, which ends in February, the number of new payroll clients, new retirement services clients, and new worksite employees associated with our ASO and PEO businesses tends to be higher than during the rest of the fiscal year, primarily because many new clients prefer to start using our services at the beginning of a calendar year. In addition, calendar year-end transaction processing and client funds activity are traditionally higher during our third fiscal quarter due to clients paying year-end bonuses, clients requesting additional year-end services, and the preparation and delivery of end-of year reporting requirements. Available Information We are subject to the informational and reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that includes our reports, proxy statements, and other information. Our corporate website, www.paychex.com, provides materials for investors and information about our services. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other SEC filings, as well as any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are made available, free of charge, on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into our Form 10-K. Also, copies of our Annual Report to Stockholders and Proxy Statement, to be issued in connection with our 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, will be made available, free of charge, upon written request submitted to Paychex, Inc., c/o Corporate Secretary, 911 Panorama Trail South, Rochester, New York 14625-2396. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future results of operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results, and from our projections. The following risk factors represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our business and are important to understanding our business. These are not the only risks we face. Additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect, possibly to a material extent, our business, cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations in future periods. In addition, refer to the cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements at the beginning of Part I of this Form 10-K. Business and Operational Risks We may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology or provide timely enhancements to our products and services. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological advancements, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, and changing industry standards. To maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. Our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our current products and introduce new products in order to keep pace with products offered by our competitors; enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients’ requirements; and adapt to technological advancements and changing industry standards. We continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. If our systems become outdated, it may negatively impact our ability to meet performance expectations related to quality, time to market, cost and innovation relative to our competitors. The failure to provide a more efficient and user-friendly customer-facing digital experience across internet and mobile platforms as well as in physical locations may adversely impact our business and operating results. There can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. If we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. The failure to continually develop enhancements and use of technologies such as robotics and other workflow automation tools, natural language processing, and artificial intelligence/machine learning may impact our ability to increase the efficiency of and reduce costs associated with operational risk management and compliance activities. We may experience software defects, undetected errors, and development delays, which could damage our relationship with clients, decrease our potential profitability and expose us to liability. Our products rely on software and computing systems that can encounter development delays, and the underlying software may contain undetected errors, viruses or defects. Defects in our products and errors or delays caused by our products could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, loss of credibility with current or potential clients, harm to our reputation and exposure to liability. In addition, we rely on technologies and software supplied by third parties that may also contain undetected errors, viruses or defects that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We could be subject to reduced revenues, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position as a result of cyberattacks, security vulnerabilities or Internet disruptions. We rely upon information technology (“IT”) networks, cloud-based platforms, and systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to support a variety of business processes, some of which are provided by third-party vendors. Cyberattacks and security threats are a risk to our business and reputation. A cyberattack, unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption or outage, corruption of data, or theft of personal or other sensitive information, could have a material adverse effect on our business operations or that of our clients, result in liability or regulatory sanction, or cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss in confidence in our ability to serve clients all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The rapid speed of disruptive innovations involving cyberattacks, security vulnerabilities and Internet disruptions enabled by new and emerging technologies may outpace our organization's ability to compete and/or manage the risk appropriately. In addition, cybercriminals may seek to engage in payment-related fraud or by more frequently attempting to gain access to our systems through phishing or other means. Furthermore, security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyberattacks targeting IT products and businesses. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Data Security and Privacy Leaks : We collect, use, and retain increasingly large amounts of personal information about our clients, employees of our clients, and our employees, including: bank account, credit card, and social security numbers, tax return 12 Table of Contents information, health care information, retirement account information, payroll information, system and network passwords, and other sensitive personal and business information. At the same time, the continued occurrence of high-profile cyber and ransomware attacks and data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. We may be particularly targeted for cyberattack because of the amount and type of personal and business information that we collect, use, and retain. Vulnerabilities, threats, and more sophisticated and targeted computer crimes pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. Furthermore, if any of our products contains a software vulnerability, the vulnerability may be exploited to obtain access to our data or our clients’ data. Our service platforms enable our clients to store and process personal data on premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment that we host. The security of our IT infrastructure is an important consideration in our customers’ purchasing decisions. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, are increasingly more complex and sophisticated and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable or fail to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate or timely preventative or responsive measures. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we are focused on ensuring that our operating environments safeguard and protect personal and business information. We may be required to invest significant additional resources to comply with evolving cybersecurity regulations and to modify and enhance our information security and controls, and to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. While we have security systems and IT infrastructure in place designed to detect and protect against unauthorized access to such information, if our security measures are breached, our business could be substantially harmed, and we could incur significant liabilities. Any such breach or unauthorized access could negatively affect our ability to attract new clients, cause existing clients to terminate their agreements with us, result in reputational damage, and subject us to lawsuits, regulatory fines, or other actions or liabilities which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Third-parties, including vendors that provide services for our operations, could also be a source of security risk to us in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure. Data Loss and Business Interruption: If our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, including Internet or systems failure, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, both the Company and our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. Hardware, applications and services, including cloud-based services, that we develop or procure from third-party vendors may contain defects in design or other problems that could compromise the integrity and availability of our services. Any delays or failures caused by network outages, software or hardware failures, or other data processing disruptions, could result in our inability to provide services in a timely fashion or at all. The speed to closure of significant cyber security incidents may be influenced by the cooperation of governmental or law enforcement agencies. We may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by disruptions or security breaches in the future. Such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulatory investigation and penalties, loss of clients’ business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack or act of war, public health emergency, pandemic, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. Climate-related weather disasters, including hurricanes, flooding, snowstorms, and severe rainstorms, could also threaten the business continuity of our operations. We have a business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. Our business continuity plan has been tested in the past by circumstances of severe weather, including hurricanes, floods, snowstorms, and rain storms and has been successful. However, these past successes are not an indicator of success in the future. If the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. We may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions. As part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. These service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks, banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees, and information technology vendors servicing cloud-based platforms we use. Failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. 13 Table of Contents We may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our PEO business. Many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the “co-employment” relationship within our PEO business. State and federal positions regarding co-employment relationships are in a constant state of flux and changed with varying degrees of impact on our operations. We cannot predict when changes will occur or forecast whether any future changes will be favorable or unfavorable to our operations. There is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. Although our agreements with clients provide that they will indemnify us for any liability attributable to their own or their employees’ conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. In addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the “employer” under any applicable state or federal laws. Incurring additional liabilities related to our PEO business may adversely affect our results of operations. We may be adversely impacted by changes in health insurance and workers’ compensation rates and underlying claims trends. Within our PEO business, we maintain health and workers’ compensation insurance covering worksite employees. The insurance costs are impacted by claims experience and are a significant portion of our PEO costs. If we experience a sudden or unexpected increase in claims activity, our costs could increase. In addition, in the event of expiration or cancellation of existing contracts, we may not be able to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms, if at all. Also, as a co-employer in the PEO, we assume or share many of the employer-related responsibilities associated with health care reform, which may result in increased costs. Increases in costs not incorporated into service fees timely or fully could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Incorporating cost increases into service fees could also impact our ability to attract and retain clients. We made and may continue to make acquisitions that involve numerous risks and uncertainties. Acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities, and difficulties in integrating operations. Successful integration involves many challenges, including the difficulty of developing and marketing new products and services, our exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, and the loss of key employees of an acquired business. The integration and conversion of our acquired operations or other future acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating these businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process. In addition, an acquisition could adversely impact cash flows and/or operating results, and dilute stockholder interests, for many reasons, including charges to our income to reflect the impairment of acquired intangible assets including goodwill, interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred in connection with an acquisition, and any issuance of securities in connection with an acquisition or new business venture that dilutes or lessens the rights of our current stockholders. If the integration of any or all of our acquisitions or future acquisitions is not successful, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price. Financial Risks Our clients could have insufficient funds to cover payments we made on their behalf, resulting in financial loss to us. As part of our payroll processing service, we are authorized by our clients to transfer money from their accounts to fund amounts owed to their employees and various taxing authorities. It is possible that we could be held liable for such amounts in the event the client has insufficient funds to cover them. We have in the past, and may in the future, make payments on our clients’ behalf for which we may not be reimbursed, resulting in loss to us. If a significant number of our clients are unable to cover payments we make on their behalf, our results of operations will be materially adversely impacted. Our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance. We receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. A change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies could adversely impact interest income. 14 Table of Contents Certain of our debt agreements contain covenants that may constrain the operation of our business, and our failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The Note Purchase and Guarantee Agreement (the “Agreement”) that we entered into in January 2019 in connection with our acquisition of Oasis Outsourcing Group Holdings, L.P. (“Oasis”), contains covenants which may restrict our flexibility to operate our business. These covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens and indebtedness, substantial changes in the general nature of our business and our subsidiaries (taken as a whole), certain merger transactions, certain sales of assets and other matters, all subject to certain exceptions. The Agreement also contains financial covenants, which are reviewed for compliance on a quarterly basis, that require us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 3.5:1.0 and a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.0:1.0. In addition, certain of our indebtedness may not exceed 20% of our consolidated stockholders’ equity. If we do not comply with these covenants, it could result in material adverse effects on our operating results and our financial condition. Legal, Regulatory and Political Risks Our business, services, and financial condition may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies. Many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services, employee benefit plan administration services, and PEO services are designed according to government regulations that often change. Changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. The addition of complex added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. Our business and reputation may be adversely impacted if we fail to comply with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations. Our services are subject to various laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the ACA and anti-money laundering rules. The growth of our international operations via acquisition also subjects us to additional risks, such as compliance with foreign laws and regulations. The enactment of new laws and regulations, modifications of existing laws and regulations, or the adverse application or interpretation of new or existing laws or regulations can adversely affect our business. Failure to update our services to comply with modified or new legislation in the areas of payment networks, health care reform and retirement plans as well as failure to educate and assist our clients regarding this legislation could adversely impact our business reputation and negatively impact our client base. Failure to comply with anti-money laundering laws and regulations, which require us to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, and maintain transaction records, could result in civil and criminal penalties and adversely impact our business reputation. In addition, there has been and may continue to be a significant number of new laws and regulations promulgated by federal, state, local, and foreign governments following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have expended additional resources and incurred additional costs in addressing regulatory requirements applicable to us and our clients. These regulations may be unclear, difficult to interpret or in conflict with other applicable regulations. Failure to comply with laws and regulations could result in the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. As a U.S. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). OFAC places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons, including most recently to Russia, Belarus, and portions of Ukraine. A violation of a sanction or embargo program, or of the FCPA, or similar laws prohibiting certain payments to governmental officials, could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties which could adversely impact our business and operations. Our reputation, results of operations, or financial condition may be adversely impacted if we fail to comply with data privacy laws and regulations. Our services require the storage and transmission of proprietary and confidential information of our clients and their employees, including personal or identifying information, as well as their financial and payroll data. Our applications are subject to various complex government laws and regulations on the federal, state, and local levels, including those governing personal privacy. In the U.S., we are subject to rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, 15 Table of Contents the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, the ACA, federal and state labor and employment laws, and state data breach notification and data privacy laws, such as the California Consumer Protection Act. In the European Union, we are subject to the European Union’s General Data Privacy Regulation. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We could be subject to litigation or reputational risk if we or our third-party providers fail to utilize data practices sufficient to safeguard proprietary, confidential, or personal or identifying information. The regulatory framework for privacy issues is rapidly evolving and future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, or regulations and/or future enforcement actions or investigations could have a materially adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our business and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, we may be unable to do so effectively in all cases. Our intellectual property could be wrongfully acquired as a result of a cyberattack or other wrongful conduct by employees or third-parties. To the extent that our intellectual property is not protected effectively by trademarks, copyrights, patents, or other means, other parties with knowledge of our intellectual property, including former employees, may seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own and others’ advantage. Competitors may also misappropriate our trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights or duplicate our technology and products. Any significant impairment or misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information could harm our business and our brand and may adversely affect our ability to compete. Third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. To the extent we seek to enforce or must defend our intellectual property rights with litigation, we could incur significant expenses and/or be required to pay substantial damages. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers or vendors in connection with claims or litigation. The litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming. We are involved in litigation from time to time arising from the operation of our business and, as such, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees, or other costs. We are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees, or other third-parties for various actions. From time to time, we are involved in litigation involving claims related to, among other things, breach of contract, tortious conduct, and employment and labor law matters. The damages sought against us in some of these litigation proceedings could be substantial. Although we maintain liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. General Risk Factors Our business, results of operations, and financial condition may continue to be impacted by COVID-19 and other macroeconomic events and such impact could be materially adverse. The global spread of COVID-19 created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption. The restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of COVID-19 disrupted economic activity, resulting in reduced commercial and consumer confidence and spending, increased unemployment, closure or restricted operating conditions for businesses, volatility in the global capital markets, instability in the credit and financial markets, labor shortages, regulatory relief for impacted consumers, disruption in supply chains, and restrictions on many hospitality and travel industry operations. Inflationary pressure, caused in part by the pandemic, is ongoing and may be compounded by the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the resulting impact on commodity prices and supply chains. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to the impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic and inflationary pressure for so long as our clients are exposed to those heightened risks and uncertainties. Our business is substantially dependent on our clients’ continued use of our solutions and services, and our results of operations will decline if our clients are no longer willing or able to use them. Our clients are sensitive to negative changes in economic conditions. If they cease operations or file for bankruptcy protection, we may not be paid for services we already provided, and our client base will shrink, which will lower our revenue. If under financial pressure, our clients may determine that they are no longer willing to pay for the services and solutions we provide, which would reduce our revenue. Our clients may decrease their workforce, which would decrease their demand for our services. Because of spending constraints on our clients and competition in the industry, we may face pricing pressure on our services and face challenges in onboarding new clients, which would reduce revenue and ultimately impact our results of operations. Furthermore, if the third-party service providers we rely on are unable to perform their services for us and our clients, our operations could be materially disrupted, and we could face significant penalties or liabilities. We may be adversely impacted by volatility in the political and economic environment. Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and variability. These conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of business. Further, rising inflation may negatively impact our business, raise costs and reduce profitability. Current or potential clients may decide to reduce their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. In addition, new business formation may be affected by an inability to obtain credit. We invest our funds held for clients in high quality, investment-grade marketable available-for-sale (“AFS”) securities, money markets, and other cash equivalents. We also invest our corporate funds in short- to intermediate-term instruments. Funds held for clients and corporate investments are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated during periods of unusual financial market volatility and inflationary pressure. The interest we earn on funds held for clients and corporate investments may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to invest or lower interest rates. In addition, during periods of volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client funds. If we are unable to reinvest our AFS securities when they mature, our interest income earned and investment portfolio would be reduced. If we sell AFS securities to satisfy short-term funding requirements, we may recognize losses, which would further reduce the interest income earned on funds held for clients and corporate investments. Constriction in the credit markets may impact the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings. Historically, we have periodically borrowed against available credit arrangements to meet short-term liquidity needs. However, should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. Growth in services for funding payrolls of our clients in the temporary staffing industry may be constricted if access to financing becomes limited. In addition, our ability to grow through significant acquisitions may be limited. See also “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” If all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified people, which could impact the quality of our services and customer satisfaction. Our success, growth, and financial results depend in part on our continuing ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified and diverse personnel at all levels, including management, technical, compliance, and sales personnel. Competition for these individuals can be intense, and we may not be able to retain our key people, or attract, assimilate, or retain other highly-qualified individuals in the future, which could harm our future success. In the event we receive negative publicity, our reputation and the value of our brand could be harmed, and clients may not use our products and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are committed to good corporate citizenship, which is reflected in our company culture and core values. Disclosure of our corporate governance practices including our environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) initiatives, may draw negative publicity from stakeholders. 17 Table of Contents Negative publicity relating to events or activities attributed to us, our policies, our corporate employees, or others associated with us, whether or not justified, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. If we are unable to maintain quality HCM and employee benefit-related solutions and PEO and insurance solutions, our reputation with our clients may be harmed and the value of our brand may diminish. In addition, if our brand is negatively impacted, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, including challenges retaining clients or attracting new clients and recruiting talent and retaining employees.