'. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any such statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after such date. 1 Table of Contents PRESENTATION OF DOLLAR AMOUNTS All dollar amounts in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are presented in millions, except for share and per share amounts or where otherwise noted. Throughout this document, percentage and dollar change calculations, which are based on non-rounded dollar values, may not be able to be recalculated using the dollar values in this document due to the rounding of those dollar values. References to daily sales rate (DSR) change may reflect either growth (positive) or contraction (negative) for the applicable period. On April 23, 2025, Fastenal Company (together with our subsidiaries, hereinafter referred to as 'Fastenal,' 'the Company,' 'we,' 'our,' or 'us') announced a two-for-one stock split of its outstanding common stock. Holders of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share, at the close of business on May 5, 2025, received one additional share of common stock for every share of common stock they owned. The stock split took effect at the close of business on May 21, 2025. All historical common stock share, per share information, stock option awards, and stockholders' equity balances for all periods presented in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto in this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Note – Information in this section is as of year end unless otherwise noted. The year end is December 31, 2025 unless additional years are included or noted. Overview Fastenal began as a partnership in 1967, and was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1968. We opened our first branch in 1967 in Winona, Minnesota, a city with a population today of approximately 26,000. We began with a marketing strategy of supplying threaded fasteners to customers through a branch network in small, medium, and, in subsequent years, large cities. Over time, how and where we engage our customers has expanded and evolved. Today we sell a broader range of industrial and construction supplies spanning more than nine major product lines through a global network of locations utilizing diverse technologies such as vending devices, bin stock devices, and eBusiness. The large majority of our transactions are business-to-business. We provide additional descriptions of our product lines and market channels later in this document. At the end of 2025, we had 1,595 branch locations in 25 countries supported by 15 distribution centers in North America, with 12 in the United States (U.S.), two in Canada, and one in Mexico; two in Asia; and two in Europe, and we employed 24,489 people. We believe our success can be attributed to the high quality of our employees and their convenient proximity to our customers, and our ability to offer customers a full range of products and services to reduce their total cost of procurement. Channels to Market Historically, our growth was primarily measured by our physical locations count. Today, we emphasize optimizing our footprint and tailoring service models to customer sites based on their size and potential for growth. Physical location openings and adjustments reflect local market conditions and strategic priorities rather than a uniform expansion approach. We engage customers primarily through physical selling locations that deliver Fastenal service and solutions at or near customer operations called sites (Sites). Starting in 2025, we have disclosed Sites information instead of public branches and customer-dedicated Onsites. These Sites are distinct locations of our customers' operations where we maintain inventory tailored to local demand, supported by our regional distribution networks. Each Site may incorporate one or more service models, including Fastenal Managed Inventory (FMI) programs (FASTStock, FASTBin, FASTVend), integrated supply programs, eBusiness capabilities, and advanced manufacturing services. These models are designed to improve product availability, automate replenishment, and reduce procurement costs for customers. Customer Sites and Sales Segmentation Our strategy prioritizes customer sites with monthly sales potential of $50,000 or more. Segmentation by spend level provides insight into the scale and potential of customer relationships served through our network. The following table summarizes customer Sites averaged by monthly spend band and related monthly sales metrics with the final metric representing the count of individual unique sites that did business throughout the year. 2 Table of Contents 3 Table of Contents Our Business Tools Fastenal Managed Inventory (FMI ® ) Over time, we have invested in and developed various technologies that allow us to put physical product closer to the point of use in a customer location, increase the visibility of a customer's supply chain (to the customer as well as our personnel), and/or improve the ability to monitor or control usage. While there are isolated exceptions, these technologies are not themselves channels to the market but rather are utilized by our selling locations to enhance service to our customers. Collectively, these tools comprise our FMI Technology suite. We believe our fully integrated distribution network allows us to manage the supply chain for all sizes of customers. FMI programs tend to generate a higher frequency of business transactions and, coupled with our fully integrated distribution network, foster a strong relationship with customers. Industrial vending (FASTVend ® ) was introduced in 2008 to provide our customers with improved product monitoring and control. Benefits include reduced consumption, reduced purchase orders, reduced product handling, and 24-hour product availability. We believe that we have a market advantage by virtue of our extensive network of inventory and local personnel. For these reasons, the initiative began to gain significant traction in 2011, and we finished 2025 with approximately 124,000 FASTVend devices in the field. We believe industrial vending has proven its effectiveness in strengthening our relationships with customers, and helped to streamline the supply chain where it has been utilized. We also believe there remains considerable room to grow our current installed base of devices before it begins to approach the number of units we believe the market can support. We estimate the market could support as many as 1.7 million vending units and, as a result, we anticipate continued growth in installed devices over time. Our industrial vending portfolio consists of 21 different vending devices, with 16 of these being in either a helix or locker format. Our most utilized models include the helix-based FAST 5000 and our 12- and 18-door lockers; combined, these comprise approximately 63% of our installed base of devices. These are either configurable or are available in multiple configurations to accommodate the various sizes and forms of products that will be dispensed to match the unique needs of our customers. Target monthly sales per device typically range from under $1,000 to in excess of $3,000, with our flagship FAST 5000 device having a targeted monthly throughput of $2,000. Bin stock (FASTStock ℠ and FASTBin ® ) programs, where product is held in bins in a customer facility, are similar to our vending business in that it involves moving product closer to the point of customer use within their facilities. Such programs have existed in the industrial supply industry for a considerable time, with open bins being clustered in a racking system, each of which holds direct fasteners, indirect fasteners, and/or non-fastener products that are consumed in the customers' operations. Historically, these bins were simply plastic and metal containers that held product and were visually inspected by our customers or Fastenal personnel to determine replenishment need. These bins in some cases are organized and labeled into customized digital plan-o-grams, which we call FASTStock and allow for the scanning of product when it is at a minimum desired level. However, in 2019 we introduced our FASTBin technology. FASTBin is the evolution of FASTStock into a set of electronic inventory management solutions that automate process controls by providing 24/7 continuous inventory monitoring, real-time inventory visibility, and automatic replenishment of bin stock parts. These technologies come in four forms: (1) scales that utilize a high-precision weight sensor system to measure the exact quantity on hand in real time, notifying Fastenal to replenish when inventory hits an established minimum; (2) infrared (IR) that uses IR sensors lining individual bins to provide real-time visibility of approximate quantity and inventory values, notifying Fastenal to replenish when inventory hits an established minimum threshold; (3) RFID, which is a Kanban system that utilizes RFID tags so that when an empty bin is removed from the rack and placed in a replenishment zone (also part of the same racking system), a notification is sent to Fastenal to refill the order; and (4) FASTClick, which is an electronic button utilized on products or in locations that do not lend themselves to a vending- or bin-based solution that allows a customer to signal they would like a replenishment activity without the need of a Fastenal representative. These technologies provide superior monitoring capabilities and immediate visibility to consumption changes, allowing for a lean supply chain, reducing risk of stock-outs, and providing a more efficient labor model for both the customer and the supplier. 4 Table of Contents Our weighted FMI measure combines signings and installations of FASTBin and FASTVend in a standardized machine equivalent unit (MEU) based on the expected output of each type of device. We do not include FASTStock in this measurement because scanned stocking locations can take many forms, such as bins, shelves, cabinets, pallets, etc., that cannot be converted into a standardized MEU. This conversion takes the targeted monthly throughput of each FMI device signed or installed and compares it to the $2,000 target monthly throughput of our FAST 5000 vending device. For example, an RFID enclosure, with target monthly sales of $2,000 would be counted as '1.00' machine equivalent ($2,000/$2,000 = 1.00). An infrared bin, with target monthly sales of $40, would be counted as '0.02' machine equivalent ($40/$2,000 = 0.02). The table below summarizes the signings and installations of, and sales through, our FMI devices. (1) Weighted FASTBin/FASTVend signings and installations reflects the percent change compared to the same period in the prior year. Digital Solutions We also invest in digital solutions that aim to deliver strategic value for our customers, leverage local inventory for same-day solutions, and provide efficient service. While there is a transactional element to our digital services, many of the solutions we invest in are intended to add value to customers by illuminating various elements of their supply chain. In many cases, this provides insights that allow us to migrate transactional, 'non-sticky' (and traditionally high cost) online spend into a 'sticky' managed setting (such as our FMI programs). These solutions take many forms: 1) Transactional . Our eBusiness includes eProcurement activities, which are integrated transactions, including electronic data interchange (EDI), and eCommerce (transactional website sales), which provide a means for our customers to effectively and efficiently procure indirect and unplanned spend. While there is a retail component to our transactional digital services, most of the sales attributable to this is with our traditional customer base, nearly all of which purchase digitally as a supplement to other channels and tools it utilizes with Fastenal. We attribute the sales generated from a customer location through our transactional platforms to the location traditionally servicing this customer location. 2) Analytics . Data analytics provide customers with detailed insights into their business operations. FAST360° offers a comprehensive view of inventory and spending, allowing users to visualize product organization and analyze spending trends. FAST360° Analytics uses Microsoft Power BI to offer stakeholders visualization tools for analyzing spend, supply channels, and cost savings. FAST360° acts as the bridge between our fulfillment operations and a customer's view into our managed service model, and provides our customers with one central source of information. These platforms empower users to make data-driven decisions, optimize operations, and improve efficiency by providing actionable insights into Fastenal-managed inventory and spending. By incorporating visual representations of complex data into standardized and tailored reporting templates, the team collaborates with Fastenal's customers and business leaders to turn insights into action. 3) Digital Visibility . Our digital capabilities are intended to produce operational efficiencies for our customers and ourselves and/or to deliver strategic value by illuminating customer supply chain operations where the employee works. For instance, we have developed, and continue to develop, 'Mobility' applications (Apps), one example of which is our FASTScan and BinStock App, which provides several benefits. It provides easy, real-time information pertaining to a customer's local inventory position within their point-of-use devices. Other applications are assisted by artificial intelligence (AI) to analyze customer usage data to recommend optimized parts and quantity for specific devices, which improves customer inventories while reducing the risk of stock-outs. Our Vending App moves our fulfillment process from a vending device-based keypad function to a tablet or scanning interaction, which improves the restock process (reduced risk of product outages), reducing time consumed (greater efficiency) while improving accuracy (improved quality assurance). We will continue to build out our suite of Apps. 5 Table of Contents Visibility is also achieved through EDI connectivity between our system and our customers' procurement systems – whether a direct integration into their Enterprise Resource Planning system or through a third-party procurement network or marketplace. These solutions provide a system-to-system exchange of electronic procurement documents (such as purchase orders, advanced shipping notices, and invoices for direct and indirect spend). Our eProcurement Solutions provide a bridge between our managed replenishment activity and our customers' procurement systems – creating an efficient, accurate and streamlined procure-to-pay process. 4.) Crib Management . We host FASTCrib, a cloud-based software tool designed to provide customers with visibility and control of their entire supply chain. It is an integrated platform that maintains customer-specific product catalogs, provides control and tracking of inventory levels, streamlines and consolidates procurement processes, and enables rich visualization and reporting in an environment with robust user controls. It also has asset tracking features and integrates with portions of our FMI suite. FASTCrib creates a one-stop, just-in-time supply chain management capability for all of the products and services consumed by our customers, whether provided directly by Fastenal or other vendors. Digital Footprint Our d igita l products and services are comprised of sales through FMI (FASTStock, FASTBin, and FASTVend) plus that proportion of our eBusiness sales that do not represent billings of FMI services (collectively, our Digital Footprint). We believe the data that is created through our digital capabilities enhances product visibility, traceability, and control that reduces risk in operations and creates ordering and fulfillment efficiencies for both us and our customers. FAST360 is the tool Fastenal uses to effectively and efficiently present these data analytics to both customers and our employees to improve the ability for data driven decision making. As a result, we believe our opportunity to grow our business will be enhanced through the continued development and expansion of our digital capabilities. Our Digital Footprint represented 61.4% of sales in 2025. We believe the combination of our broad product offering, physical presence on a global scale, and toolbox of services, specialists, and digital capabilities, produces a customer engagement model that is difficult for large and small competitors to replicate. This is consistent with our strategy and offers significant value by providing differentiated and difficult to displace service. We also believe it differentiates us when compared to web purchasing models as an independent sales channel. We expect to continue to build out and develop our digital solutions over time. Our greatest opportunity lies with the deployment of efficient and effective supply chain programs. We are focused on addressing the four key components: people, products, processes, and technology, to support this model. Distribution Network We operate 15 regional distribution centers in North America: 12 in the U.S., two in Canada, and one in Mexico. We also operate two distribution centers in Asia and two distribution centers in Europe. These distribution centers give us approximately 5.3 million square feet of distribution capacity. Additional details on these locations can be found within the '