Our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those factors discussed elsewhere in this report.

 

Our Failure to Successfully Execute Certain Strategies Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Growth and Profitability 

 

The companion animal healthcare industry is highly competitive and we anticipate increasing levels of competition from both existing competitors and new market entrants. Our ability to maintain or enhance our growth rates and our profitability depends on our successful execution of many elements of our strategy, including: 

 

 ·

Developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative new or improved and cost competitive in-clinic laboratory analyzers 
that drive sales of IDEXX VetLab instruments, grow our installed base of instruments and increase demand for related consumable products, services and accessories
;

 

 ·

Developing and introducing new proprietary diagnostic tests and services that provide valuable medical information to our customers and effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors;

 

 ·

Increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of these products and the management of diagnostic information derived from our products;

 

 ·

Providing our veterinary customers with the medical and business tools, information and resources that enable them to grow their practices through increased pet visits and enhanced practice of real-time care;

 

 ·

Achieving cost improvements in our worldwide network of laboratories by implementing global best practices, including lean processing techniques, incorporating technological enhancements, including laboratory automation and a global laboratory information management system, employing purchasing strategies to maximize leverage of our global scale, increasing the leverage of existing infrastructure and consolidating testing in high volume laboratory hubs;

 

 ·

Achieving cost improvements in the manufacture and service of our in-clinic laboratory analyzers by employing the benefits of economies of scale in both negotiating supply contracts and leveraging manufacturing overhead, and by improving reliability of our instruments;

 

 ·

Achieving productivity improvements in our companion animal diagnostic sales organization in North America by transitioning our specialty sales force that represent either in-house or reference laboratory diagnostics to account representatives who represent the full line of IDEXX diagnostics;

 

 ·

Attracting, developing and retaining key leadership and talent necessary to support all elements of our strategy; 

 

 ·

Expanding our served market and growing our market share by strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the U.S. and in geographies outside of the U.S.; 

 

16

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 ·

Identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business or geographic areas for us; and

 

 ·

Developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies. 

 

If we are unsuccessful in implementing and executing on some or all of these strategies, our rate of growth or profitability may be negatively impacted. 

 

Our Dependence on Suppliers Could Limit Our Ability to Sell Certain Products or Negatively Affect Our Operating Results 

 

We rely on third-party suppliers to provide components in our products, manufacture products that we do not manufacture ourselves and perform services that we do not provide ourselves, includ
ing package-delivery services. 
Because these suppliers are independent third parties with their own financial objectives, actions taken by them could have a negative effect on our results of operations. The risks of relying on suppliers include our inability to enter into contracts with third-party suppliers on reasonable terms, inconsistent or inadequate quality control, relocation of supplier facilities, supplier work stoppages and suppliers’ failure to comply with 
their contractual obligations. 
Problems with suppliers could negatively impact our ability to supply the market, substantially decrease sales, lead to higher costs or damage our reputation with our customers.

 

In addition, we currently purchase many products and materials from sole or single sources. Some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. These products include the majority of our Catalyst Dx consumables; ProCyte Dx hematology, IDEXX VetAutoread hematology, VetLyte
 e
lectrolyte, VetTest chemistry analyzers and related consumables and accessories; image capture plates used in our digital radiography systems; and certain components and raw materials used in our SNAP
 
rapid assay devices, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, dairy testing products and LaserCyte
 
and 
LaserCyte Dx hematology analyzer
s. To mitigate risks associated with sole and single source suppliers, we seek when possible to enter into long-term contracts that provide for an uninterrupted supply of products at predictable prices. However, some suppliers decline to enter into long-term contracts and we are required to purchase products on a purchase order basis. There can be no assurance that suppliers with which we do not have contracts will continue to supply our requirements for products, that suppliers with which we do have contracts will always fulfill their obligations under these contracts, or that any of our suppliers will not experience disruptions in their ability to supply our requirements for products. In cases where we purchase sole and single source products or components under purchase orders, we are more susceptible to unanticipated cost increases or changes in other terms of supply. In addition, under some contracts with suppliers we have minimum purchase obligations, and our failure to satisfy those obligations may result in loss of some or all of our rights under these contracts or require us to compensate the supplier. If we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of products in the future from sole and single source suppliers, we may be unable to supply the market, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
 

 

Our Biologic Products Are Complex and Difficult to Manufacture, Which Could 
Negatively 
Affect Our Ability to Supply the Market
 

 

Many of our rapid assay, livestock and poultry diagnostic, water and dairy products are biologic products, which are products that include materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. Manufacturing biologic products is highly complex due to the inherent variability of biological input materials and to the difficulty of controlling the interactions of these materials with other components of the products, samples and the environment. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that we will be able to consistently manufacture biologic products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. Further, products that meet release criteria at the time of manufacture may fall out of specification while in customer inventory, which could require us to incur expenses associated with recalling products and providing customers with new products, and could damage customer relations. Our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products and have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

 

 

17

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Changes to our Relationships with Distributors and Distributor Purchasing Patterns Could 
Negatively
 Affect Our Operating Results 

 

We sell many of our products, including substantially all of the rapid assays and instrument consumables sold in t
he U.S., through distributors. 
As a result, we are dependent on these distributors to sell our products and assist us in promoting and creat
ing a demand for our products. 
Our agreements with U.S. distributors may generally be terminated by the distributors for any reason and certain of our distributors may carry our competitors’ products and promote our competitors’ p
roducts over our own products. 
Further, distributor purchasing patterns can be unpredictable and may be influenced by factors unrelated to the en
d-user demand for our products.
 Because significant product sales are made to a limited number of distributors, the unanticipated loss of a distributor, changes to our relationship with a distributor, such as a distributor becoming non-exclusive or unanticipated changes in the frequency, timing or size of distributor purchases, could have a negative effect on our results of operations.

 

Distributors of veterinary products have entered into business combinations resulting in fewer distribution companies. Further consolidation within distribution channels could increase our reliance on a limited number of distributors. 

 

Increased Competition and Technological Advances by Our Competitors Could Negatively Affect Our Operating Results 

 

We face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services and we expect that future competition may become even more intense. Competition could negatively affect our sales and profitability in a number of ways. New competitors may enter our markets and new or existing competitors may introduce new and competitive products and services, which could be superior to our products and services. Some of our competitors and potential competitors may choose to differentiate themselves by offering products and services similar to ours at lower sales prices, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations through loss of market share or a decision to lower our own sales prices to remain competitive. In addition, our ability to attract and retain customers depends on the effectiveness of our customer marketing and incentive programs and multiple competitors could bundle product and service offerings through co-marketing or other arrangements, which could enhance their ability to compete with our broad product and service offering. Some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater financial resources than us, and greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. 

 

Various Government Regulations Could Limit or Delay Our Ability to Market and Sell Our Products 

 

In the U.S., the manufacture and sale of many of our products are regulated by agencies such as the USDA, the FDA or the EPA. Our infectious disease diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including most rapid assay canine and feline SNAP tests and livestock and poultry diagnostic tests, must be approved by the USDA prior to sale in the U.S. Our dairy testing products require approval by the FDA prior to sale in the U.S. Our water testing products must be approved by the EPA before they can be used by customers in the U.S. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the EPA. The manufacture and sale of our 
OPTI
 line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers require approval by the FDA before they may be sold commercially in the U.S. The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to similar and sometimes more stringent laws in many foreign countries. In addition, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new products or product upgrades could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. 

 

 

18

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

We are also subject to a variety of federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the importation and exportation of products and our business practices in the U.S. and abroad such as anti-corruption and anti-competition laws.
 For example, 
on February 11, 2013, the FTC granted final approval of the Agreement Containing Consent Order to Cease and Desist previously reached with the FTC staff to resolve the investigation into whether IDEXX had engaged in unfair methods of competition in violation of Section 5 of the
 Federal Trade Commission Act. 
Pursuant to this agreement, we may have exclusive distribution agreements with only two of the three largest U.S. distributors of companion animal veterinary products and, as a result, we entered into a modified agreement with MWI under which it is permitted to carry any competitive products without restriction or potential negative consequence. 
Any failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements relating to our business practices or the manufacture and sale of our products in the U.S. or in other countries could result in fines and sanctions against us, suspensions or discontinuations of our ability to manufacture or sell our products or impact our ability to market or distribute our products, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.
 

 

Increase in Corporate Hospital Ownership and Prevalence of Buying Consortiums Could Negatively Affect Our Business
 

 

An increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals in the U.S. are owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. Major corporate hospital owners in the U.S. include Banfield Pet Hospital, National Veterinary Associates and VCA Antech, Inc., each of which is currently a customer of IDEXX. A similar trend exists in other countries, such as in the U.K. and Nordic countries and may in the future also develop in other international markets. Furthermore, an increasing percentage of individually-owned veterinary hospitals in the U.S. are participating in buying consortiums. Corporate owners of veterinary hospitals and buying consortiums often seek to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. While we have strong supplier relationships with several corporate hospital groups and buying consortiums, decisions by larger corporate owners and buying consortiums to shift their purchasing of products and services away from us and to a competitor would have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, certain corporate owners, most notably VCA Antech, Inc., our primary competitor in the U.S. and Canadian markets for veterinary reference laboratory diagnostic services, also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. Any hospitals acquired by these companies generally shift all or a large portion of their testing to the reference laboratories operated by these companies. Furthermore, because these companies compete with us in the reference laboratory services marketplace, hospitals acquired by these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services, which would cause our sales of these products and services to decline. 

 

Our Success Is Heavily Dependent Upon Proprietary Technologies 

 

We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to 
protect our proprietary rights.
 We also license patents and technologies from third parties to enable the use of third-party technologies in the development and production of our products and offerings. If we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights or are unable to license third-party patents and technologies on reasonable terms, our business may be affected by competitors who utilize substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. 

 

We cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. Even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. 

 

In the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. Patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. We cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. If we lose, we may be prohibited from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. Any such result could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

 

19

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Changes in Testing Patterns Could Negatively Affect Our Operating Results
 

 

The market for our companion animal, livestock and poultry diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors impacting testing practices. The introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. Changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. Eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. Our livestock and poultry products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. For example, the demand for our bovine spongiform encephalopathy (“BSE”) testing products has been negatively impacted as a result of regulatory changes in the European Union, including the European Union’s Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health agreement to allow European Union member states the option to eliminate BSE testing of healthy cattle at 
slaughter effective March 2013.
 In addition, changes in government regulations or in the availability of government funds available for monitoring programs could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our livestock and poultry, dairy and water products. Declines in testing for any of the reasons described, along with lost opportunities associated with a reduction in veterinary visits, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

 

Our Operations and Reputation May Be Impaired if We Do Not Comply with Regulations and Policies Regarding Privacy and Protection of User Data

 

We offer online client communication tools and services to veterinary practices through Pet Health Network Pro, and cloud-based technology through VetConnect PLUS that enables veterinarians to access and analyze patients’ diagnostic data from IDEXX in-clinic analyzers, our Rapid Assays and Refere
nce Laboratories in one place. 
We also engage in e-commerce through the idexx.com website and various
 international IDEXX websites. 
Federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of data that we receive from customers, visitors to the websites of our customers and others. In addition, we have and post on our website our own privacy policy concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any privacy-related laws, government regulations or directives or industry self-regulatory principles could result in damage to our reputation, or proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or otherwise, which could have an adverse effect on our business.

 

Strengthening of the Rate of Exchange for the U.S. Dollar Has a Negative Effect on Our Business 

 

Any strengthening of the rate of exchange for the U.S. dollar against non-U.S. currencies, and in particular the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and Australian dollar, adversely affects our results, as it reduces the dollar value of sales that are made in those currencies and reduces the profits on products manufactured or sourced in U.S. dollars and expo
rted to international markets. 
Approximately 26% of our consolidated revenue for each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was derived from products manufactured in the U.S. and sold internationally in local currencies. A strengthening U.S. dollar could also negatively impact the ability of customers outside the U.S. to pay for purchases denominated in U.S. dollars. 

 

A Weak Economy Could Result in Reduced Demand for Our Products and Services or Increased Customer Credit Risk 

 

A substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. Demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of patient visits to veterinary hospitals and the practices of veterinarians with respect to the recommendations for diagnostic testing, as well as pet owner compliance with these recommendations. Economic weakness in our significant markets in recent years has caused and could continue to cause pet owners to forgo or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or affect their willingness to approve certain diagnostic tests, comply with a treatment plan or, even more fundamentally, continue to own a pet. In addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests, and concerns about the economy may cause veterinarians to defer purchasing capital items such as our instruments and systems. These conditions, if they 

 

20

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

continue, could result in a decrease in sales of diagnostic products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

 

Demand for our water products is driven in part by the availability of funds at government laboratories, water utilities and private certified laboratories that utilize our products. Availability of funds also affects demand by government laboratories and cattle, swine and poultry producers that utilize our livestock and poultry diagnostic products, and by users of our human point-of-care diagnostic instruments. Economic weakness in our markets has caused and could continue to cause our customers to reduce their investment in such testing, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

 

In all of our markets, a weak economy may also cause deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors and customers, which could inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided in a timely fashion or at all. 

 

Risks Associated with Doing Business Internationally Could Negatively Affect Our Operating Results

 

For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 42% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the U.S., compared to 41% and 43% for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Various possible risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales, including disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export duties and licensing requirements, natural disasters and unexpected regulatory and economic or political changes in foreign markets. Further, prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the U.S. due to competitive, market or other factors. In addition, foreign government regulations may restrict our ability to repatriate funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions, and any repatriation of such funds to the U.S. may result in higher effective tax rates for us. Our results of operations are also susceptible to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. As a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have an adverse impact on our results of operations for that period. 

 

Our Limited Experience and Small Scale in the Human Point-of-Care Market Could Inhibit Our Success in this Market 

 

We have limited experience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market and we operate at a small scale in this market. This market differs in many respects from the veterinary diagnostic market. Significant differences include the impact of third-party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base and more rapid technological innovation. Our limited experience and small scale in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary diagnostic market. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary diagnostic market. 

 

Our Operati
ons are Vulnerable to Interruption
 as a Result of Natural and Man-Made Disasters
,
 System Disruptions
 and Security Breaches

 

The operation of all of our facilities may be vulnerable to interruption as a result of natural and man-made disasters, interruptions in power supply or other system failures. While we maintain plans to continue business under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that such plans will be successful in fully or partially mitigating the effects of such events. 

 

 

21

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

We manufacture many of our significant companion animal products, including our rapid assay devices and certain instruments, many of our water testing products and certain of our livestock, poultry and dairy testing products, at a single facility in Westbrook, Maine. Certain of our companion animal products, as well as our human point-of-care products, are manufactured in Roswell, Georgia. We also manufacture certain of our livestock and poultry testing products in Bern, Switzerland and Montpellier, France. In addition, we maintain major distribution facilities in North America and in the Netherlands and major reference laboratories in Memphis, Tennessee; Leipzig, Germany; Ludwigsburg, Germany; Sacramento, California; Elmhurst, Illinois; North Grafton, Massachusetts; East Brisbane, Australia; Markham, Ontario; Wetherby, U.K; and Tokyo, Japan. Interruption of operations at any of these facilities could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

 

 We rely on several information systems throughout our company to keep financial records, process customer orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. Although we employ system backup measures, our current disaster recovery plan may be ineffective or inadequate to address all eventualities. 
Further, our information systems may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers and other security breaches, including computer viruses. Any such
 attack or
 breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publ
icly disclosed, lost or stolen.
 If
 we were to experience a system disruption
, attack
 or security breach that impacts any of our critical functions, it could result in the loss of sales and customers, financial misstatement and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. 
Furthermore, any access to, public disclosure of, or other loss of information as a result of an attack or security breach could result in governmental actions or private claims or proceedings, which could damage our reputation, cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, and adversely affect our business.

 

We maintain property and business interruption insurance to insure against the financial impact of certain events of this nature. However, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for the full amount of any losses that we may incur. In addition, such insurance will not compensate us for the long-term competitive effects of being out of the market for the period of any interruption in operations. 

 

If Our Quarterly or Annual Results of Operations Fluctuate, This Fluctuation May Cause Our Stock Price to Decline 

 

Our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, operating expenditures, customer marketing and incentive programs, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and litigation and claim-related expenditures; changes in competitors’ product offerings; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. Similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. 

 

Future Operating Results Could Be Negatively Affected by the Resolution of Various Uncertain Tax Positions and by Potential Changes to Tax Incentives 

 

In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. We periodically assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes and believe that we have appropriately accrued taxes for contingencies. Any reduction of these contingent liabilities or additional assessments would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination was made. Our income tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Additionally, we benefit from certain tax incentives offered by various jurisdictions. If we are unable to meet the requirements of such incentives, or if they expire or are renewed at less favorable terms, our inability to realize these benefits could have a material negative effect on future earnings. 

 

 

22

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Restrictions in Our 
Debt Agreements
 or Our Inability to Obtain Financing on Favorable Terms May Limit Our Activities

 

Our ability to make scheduled payments and satisfy our other obligations under our unsecured revolving credit facility and senior notes depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows to meet these obligatio
ns or generate sufficient levels of earnings to satisfy the applicable 
affirmative, negative and financial covenants
. O
ur failure to comply with these covenants and the other terms of the credit facility and senior notes could result in an event of default and acceleration of our obligations under these agreements, which may require us to seek additional financing or restructure existing debt on unfavorable terms. In addition, adverse changes in credit markets could increase our cost of borrowing and make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. 

 

Our senior notes include provisions which stipulate a prepayment penalty for which we will be obligated in the event that we elect to repay the notes prior t
o their stated maturity dates. 
Should we elect to repay some or all of the outstanding principal balance on our senior notes, the prepayment penalty we incur could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.

 

We fund our operations, capital purchase requirements and strategic growth needs through cash on hand, funds generated from operations and amounts available under our credit facility. If we were unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, we could face restrictions that would limit our ability to execute certain strategies, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth and profitability.