Forward-Looking
Statements and Risk Factors

 

This section discusses the most significant factors
that affect our business, operations and financial condition. It does not
describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or
ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks, as well as other
risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think
are not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. In
that event, the value of our securities could decline.

 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents
incorporated by reference contain statements that constitute “forward-looking
statements” as that term is defined in the federal securities laws. These
forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those regarding:

 

• the possible expansion
of our portfolio, including our ability to close our anticipated acquisitions
and investments on currently anticipated terms, or within currently anticipated
timeframes, or at all; 

 

• the sale of
properties; 

 

• the performance of our
operators/tenants and properties; 

 

• our ability to enter
into agreements with new viable tenants for vacant space or for properties that
we take back from financially troubled tenants, if any;

 

• our occupancy rates; 

 

• our ability to
acquire, develop and/or manage properties;

 

• our ability to make
distributions to stockholders; 

 

27

 

 

 

 

• our
policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters;

 

• our ability to
successfully manage the risks associated with international expansion and
operations; 

 

• our tax status as a
real estate investment trust; 

 

• our critical
accounting policies; 

 

• our ability to
appropriately balance the use of debt and equity;

 

• our ability to access
capital markets or other sources of funds; and

 

• our ability to meet
our earnings guidance. 

 

When we use words such as “may,” “will,” “intend,”
“should,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “project,” “estimate” or similar
expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking
statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and
uncertainties. Our expected results may not be achieved, and actual results may
differ materially from our expectations. This may be a result of various factors,
including, but not limited to:

 

• the status of the
economy; 

 

• the status of capital
markets, including availability and cost of capital;

 

• issues facing the
health care industry, including compliance with, and changes to, regulations
and payment policies, responding to government investigations and punitive
settlements and operators’/tenants’ difficulty in cost-effectively obtaining
and maintaining adequate liability and other insurance;

 

• changes in financing
terms; 

 

• competition within the
health care, seniors housing and life science industries;

 

• negative developments
in the operating results or financial condition of operators/tenants,
including, but not limited to, their ability to pay rent and repay loans;

 

• our ability to
transition or sell facilities with profitable results;

 

• the failure to make
new investments as and when anticipated;

 

• acts of God affecting
our properties; 

 

• our ability to
re-lease space at similar rates as vacancies occur;

 

• our ability to timely
reinvest sale proceeds at similar rates to assets sold;

 

• operator/tenant or
joint venture partner bankruptcies or insolvencies;

 

• the cooperation of
joint venture partners;

 

• government regulations
affecting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates and operational
requirements;

 

• regulatory approval
and market acceptance of the products and technologies of life science tenants;

 

• liability or contract
claims by or against operators/tenants;

 

• unanticipated
difficulties and/or expenditures relating to future acquisitions;

 

• environmental laws
affecting our properties; 

 

28

 

 

 

 

• changes
in rules or practices governing our financial reporting;

 

• the movement of U.S.
and foreign currency exchange rates;

 

• qualification as a REIT;

 

• key management
personnel recruitment and retention; and

 

• the risks described
below: 

 

Risk factors related
to our operators’ revenues and expenses

 

Our operators’ revenues are primarily driven by
occupancy, private pay rates, and Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if
applicable. Expenses for these facilities are primarily driven by the costs of
labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. Revenues
from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure
due to reimbursement cuts and state budget shortfalls. Operating costs continue
to increase for our operators. To the extent that any decrease in revenues
and/or any increase in operating expenses result in a property not generating
enough cash to make payments to us, the credit of our operator and the value of
other collateral would have to be relied upon. To the extent the value of such
property is reduced, we may need to record an impairment for such asset.
Furthermore, if we determine to dispose of an underperforming property, such
sale may result in a loss. Any such impairment or loss on sale would negatively
affect our financial results.

 

The continued weakened economy may have an adverse
effect on our operators and tenants, including their ability to access credit
or maintain occupancy and/or private pay rates. If the operations, cash flows
or financial condition of our operators are materially adversely impacted by
economic conditions, our revenue and operations may be adversely affected.

 

Increased competition may affect our operators’ ability
to meet their obligations to
 
us 

 

The operators of our properties compete on a local and
regional basis with operators of properties and other health care providers
that provide comparable services. We cannot be certain that the operators of
all of our facilities will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate
levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. Our
operators are expected to encounter increased competition in the future that
could limit their ability to attract residents or expand their businesses.

 

Risk factors related to obligor bankruptcies

 

We are exposed to the risk that our obligors may not
be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us,
which may result in an obligor bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an obligor
might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons.
Although our operating lease agreements provide us with the right to evict a
tenant, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our
loans provide us with the right to terminate any funding obligation, demand
immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the
collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws
afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or
reorganization. An obligor in bankruptcy or subject to insolvency proceedings
may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of
a lease or to receive unpaid principal and interest in the case of a loan, and
to exercise other rights and remedies.

 

We may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g.,
real estate taxes and maintenance) to preserve the value of an investment
property, avoid the imposition of liens on a property and/or transition a
property to a new tenant. In some instances, we have terminated our lease with
a tenant and relet the property to another tenant. In some of those situations,
we have provided working capital loans to and limited indemnification of the
new obligor. If we cannot transition a leased property to a new tenant, we may
take possession of that property, which may expose us to certain successor
liabilities. Should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may
be adversely affected.

 

Transfers of health care facilities may require
regulatory approvals and these
 
facilities
may not have efficient alternative uses

 

Transfers of health care facilities to successor
operators frequently are subject to regulatory approvals or notifications,
including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals under certificate
of need (“CON”) or determination of need laws, state licensure laws and
Medicare and Medicaid provider arrangements, that are not required for
transfers of other types of real estate. The replacement of a health care
facility operator could be delayed by the approval process of any federal,
state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the
replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. Alternatively,
given the specialized nature of our facilities, we may be required to spend
substantial time and funds to adapt these properties to other uses. If we are
unable 

29

 

 

 

 

to timely transfer properties to successor
operators or find efficient alternative uses, our revenue and operations may be
adversely affected.

 

Risk factors related to government regulations

 

Some of our obligors’ businesses are affected by
government reimbursement. To the extent that an operator/tenant receives a
significant portion of its revenues from government payors, primarily Medicare
and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes,
retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs,
court decisions, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or
other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers, government funding
restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and
interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing government investigations
and audits at such property. In recent years, government payors have frozen or
reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. Health
care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to
federal and state authorities. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate
timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial
condition of our obligors and properties. There can be no assurance that
adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services provided by any
property operator, whether the property receives reimbursement from Medicare,
Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on the scope of services
reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse
effect on an obligor’s liquidity, financial condition and results of
operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an obligor to meet its
obligations to us. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government
Regulations — Reimbursement” above.

 

Our operators and tenants generally are subject to
varying levels of federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure,
certification and inspection laws, regulations, and standards. Our operators’
or tenants’ failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or standards
could result in loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement, imposition of
fines, suspension, decertification or exclusion from federal and state health
care programs, loss of license or closure of the facility. Such actions may
have an effect on our operators’ or tenants’ ability to make lease payments to
us and, therefore, adversely impact us. See “Item 1 — Business —
Certain Government Regulations — Other Related Laws” above.

 

Many of our properties may require a license,
registration, and/or CON to operate. Failure to obtain a license, registration,
or CON, or loss of a required license, registration, or CON would prevent a
facility from operating in the manner intended by the operators or tenants.
These events could materially adversely affect our operators’ or tenants’
ability to make rent payments to us. State and local laws also may regulate
the expansion, including the addition of new beds or services or acquisition of
medical equipment, and the construction or renovation of health care
facilities, by requiring a CON or other similar approval from a state agency.
See “Item 1 — Business — Certain Government Regulations —
Licensing and Certification” above.

 

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of
2010, as modified by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010
(collectively, the “Health Reform Laws”), provides states with an increased
federal medical assistance percentage under certain conditions. On June 28,
2012, The United States Supreme Court upheld the individual mandate of the
Health Reform Laws but partially invalidated the expansion of Medicaid. The
ruling on Medicaid expansion will allow states not to participate in the
expansion—and to forego funding for the Medicaid expansion—without losing their
existing Medicaid funding. Given that the federal government substantially
funds the Medicaid expansion, it is unclear whether any state will pursue this
option, although at least some appear to be considering this option at this
time. The participation by states in the Medicaid expansion could have the dual
effect of increasing our tenants’ revenues, through new patients, but further
straining state budgets. While the federal government will pay for
approximately 100% of those additional costs from 2014 to 2016, states will be
expected to begin paying for part of those additional costs in 2017. With
increasingly strained budgets, it is unclear how states will pay their share of
these additional Medicaid costs and what other health care expenditures could
be reduced as a result. A significant reduction in other health care related
spending by states to pay for increased Medicaid costs could affect our
tenants’ revenue streams. See “Item 1 — Business — Certain
Government Regulations — Reimbursement” above and “Item 7—Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Health
Care Industry—Health Reform Laws” below.

 

More generally, and because of the dynamic nature of
the legislative and regulatory environment for health care products and
services, and in light of existing federal deficit and budgetary concerns, we
cannot predict the impact that broad-based, far-reaching legislative or
regulatory changes could have on the U.S. economy, our business or that of our
tenants.

 

Risk factors related to liability claims and insurance
costs

 

In recent years, skilled nursing and seniors housing
operators have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of
patient care liability claims. As a result, general and professional liability
costs have increased in some markets. General and professional liability
insurance coverage may be restricted or very costly, which may adversely affect
the property operators’ future 

30

 

 

 

 

operations, cash flows
and financial condition, and may have a material adverse effect on the property
operators’ ability to meet their obligations to us.

 

Unfavorable resolution of pending and future
litigation matters and disputes could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition. 

 

From time to time, we may be directly involved in a
number of legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. We may also be named as
defendants in lawsuits allegedly arising out of our actions or the actions of
our operators/tenants or managers in which such operators/tenants or managers
have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various
claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective
businesses. An unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation may have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition. Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial
costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. There
can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable
settlement of, pending or future litigation. In addition, pending litigation or
future litigation, government proceedings or environmental matters could lead
to increased costs or interruption of our normal business operations.

 

Risk factors related to acquisitions

 

We are exposed to the risk that some of our
acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated
difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including
contingent liabilities, and acquired properties might require significant
management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business.
If we agree to provide construction funding to an operator/tenant and the
project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the
project. Such expenditures may negatively affect our results of operations. Furthermore,
there can be no assurance that our anticipated acquisitions and investments,
the completion of which is subject to various conditions, will be consummated
in accordance with anticipated timing, on anticipated terms, or at all.

 

Risk factors related to joint ventures

 

We have entered into, and may continue in the future
to enter into, partnerships or joint ventures with other persons or entities.
Joint venture investments involve risks that may not be present with other
methods of ownership, including the possibility that our partner might become
insolvent, refuse to make capital contributions when due or otherwise fail to
meet its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for
guarantees and other commitments; that our partner might at any time have
economic or other business interests or goals that are or become inconsistent
with our interests or goals; that we could become engaged in a dispute with our
partner, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such
disputes and could have an adverse impact on the operations and profitability
of the joint venture; and that our partner may be in a position to take action
or withhold consent contrary to our instructions or requests. In addition, our
ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be
restricted. In some instances, we and/or our partner may have the right to
trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or
acquire our partner’s interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have
initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our partner’s interest may
be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or
other capital resources. In such event, we may be forced to sell our interest
in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. Joint
ventures may require us to share decision-making authority with our partners,
which could limit our ability to control the properties in the joint ventures.
Even when we have a controlling interest, certain major decisions may require
partner approval, such as the sale, acquisition or financing of a property.

 

Risk factors related to our seniors housing operating
properties 

 

We are exposed to various operational risks with
respect to our seniors housing operating properties that may increase our costs
or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. These risks include
fluctuations in occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement, if applicable,
and private pay rates; economic conditions; competition; federal, state, local,
and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws,
regulations, and standards; the availability and increases in cost of general
and professional liability insurance coverage; state regulation and rights of
residents related to entrance fees; the availability and increases in the cost
of labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise). Any one or a combination
of these factors may adversely affect our revenue and operations.

 

Risk factors related to life science facilities

 

Our tenants in the life science industry face high
levels of regulation, expense and uncertainty that may adversely affect their
ability to make payments to us. Research, development and clinical testing of
products and technologies can be very expensive and sources of funds may not be
available to our life science tenants in the future. The products and technologies
that are developed and 

31

 

 

 

 

manufactured by our life
science tenants may require regulatory approval prior to being made, marketed,
sold and used. The regulatory process can be costly, long and unpredictable.
Even after a tenant gains regulatory approval and market acceptance, the
product still presents regulatory and liability risks, such as safety concerns,
competition from new products and eventually the expiration of patent
protection. These factors may affect the ability of our life science tenants to
make timely payments to us, which may adversely affect our revenue and
operations.

 

Risk factors related to indebtedness

 

Permanent financing for our investments is typically
provided through a combination of public offerings of debt and equity securities
and the incurrence or assumption of secured debt. The incurrence or assumption
of indebtedness may cause us to become more leveraged, which could
(1) require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow to the
payment of debt service, (2) make us more vulnerable to a downturn in the
economy, (3) limit our ability to obtain additional financing, or
(4) negatively affect our credit ratings or outlook by one or more of the
rating agencies.

 

Our debt agreements contain various covenants,
restrictions and events of default. Among other things, these provisions
require us to maintain certain financial ratios and minimum net worth and
impose certain limits on our ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and
make investments or acquisitions. Breaches of these covenants could result in
defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness, in
addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against such instruments.
These defaults could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.

 

In addition, adverse economic conditions may impact
the availability of additional funds or could cause the terms on which we are
able to borrow additional funds to become unfavorable. In those circumstances,
we may be required to raise additional equity in the capital markets. Our
access to capital depends upon a number of factors over which we have little or
no control, including rising interest rates, inflation and other general market
conditions and the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current
and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of
the shares of our capital stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to
raise the capital necessary to make future investments or to meet our
obligations and commitments as they mature.

 

Risk factors related to our credit ratings

 

We plan to manage the Company to maintain a capital
structure consistent with our current profile, but there can be no assurance
that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings. Any downgrades in
terms of ratings or outlook by any or all of the rating agencies could have a
material adverse impact on our cost and availability of capital, which could in
turn have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations,
liquidity and/or financial condition.

 

Risk factors related to swaps

 

We enter into interest rate swap agreements from time
to time to manage some of our exposure to interest rate and foreign currency
exchange rate volatility. These swap agreements involve risks, such as the risk
that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these
arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing
our exposure to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates.
When we use forward-starting interest rate swaps, there is a risk that we will
not complete the long-term borrowing against which the swap is intended to
hedge. If such events occur, our results of operations may be adversely
affected.

 

Risk factors related to environmental laws

 

Under various federal and state laws, owners or
operators of real estate may be required to respond to the presence or release
of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property
damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental
contamination or exposure to hazardous substances. We may become liable to
reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the
contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the
person’s relationship to the property. Our tenants or borrowers are primarily
responsible for the condition of the property. Moreover, we review
environmental site assessments of the properties that we own or encumber prior
to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to meet the “all
appropriate inquiry” standard, which we believe qualifies us for the innocent
purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such assessments,
we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material
environmental contamination. However, environmental liabilities may be present
in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which
could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition or
the business or financial condition of our obligors.

 

Risk factors related to facilities that require
entrance fees

 

32

 

 

 

 

Certain of our seniors housing facilities require the
payment of an upfront entrance fee by the resident, a portion of which may be
refundable by the operator. Some of these facilities are subject to substantial
oversight by state regulators relating to these funds. As a result of this
oversight, residents of these facilities may have a variety of rights,
including, for example, the right to cancel their contracts within a specified
period of time and certain lien rights. The oversight and rights of residents
within these facilities may have an effect on the revenue or operations of the
operators of such facilities and therefore may negatively impact us.

 

Risk factors related to facilities under construction
or development

 

At any given time, we may be in the process of
constructing one or more new facilities that ultimately will require a CON and
license before they can be utilized by the operator for their intended use. The
operator also may need to obtain Medicare and Medicaid certification and enter
into Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements and/or third party payor
contracts. In the event that the operator is unable to obtain the necessary
CON, licensure, certification, provider agreements or contracts after the
completion of construction, there is a risk that we will not be able to earn
any revenues on the facility until either the initial operator obtains a
license or certification to operate the new facility and the necessary provider
agreements or contracts or we find and contract with a new operator that is
able to obtain a license to operate the facility for its intended use and the
necessary provider agreements or contracts.

 

In connection with our renovation, redevelopment,
development and related construction activities, we may be unable to obtain, or
suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and
other required governmental permits and authorizations. These factors could
result in increased costs or our abandonment of these projects. In addition, we
may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, which may render us
unable to proceed with our development activities, and we may not be able to
complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could
result in increased debt service expense or construction costs.

 

Additionally, the time frame required for development,
construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait
years for significant cash returns. Because we are required to make cash
distributions to our stockholders, if the cash flow from operations or
refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to
fund such distributions. Newly developed and acquired properties may not
produce the cash flow that we expect, which could adversely affect our overall
financial performance.

 

In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular
property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that
property. In particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on
expected occupancy, rental rates and capital costs. If our financial
projections with respect to a new property are inaccurate as a result of
increases in capital costs or other factors, the property may fail to perform
as we expected in analyzing our investment. Our estimate of the costs of
repositioning or redeveloping an acquired property may prove to be inaccurate,
which may result in our failure to meet our profitability goals. Additionally,
we may acquire new properties that are not fully leased, and the cash flow from
existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt
service associated with that property.

 

We do not know if our tenants will renew their
existing leases, and if they do not,

we may be unable to lease the properties on as favorable terms, or at all

 

We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew
existing leases at the end of their lease terms, which expire at various times.
If these leases are not renewed, we would be required to find other tenants to
occupy those properties or sell them. There can be no assurance that we would
be able to identify suitable replacement tenants or enter into leases with new
tenants on terms as favorable to us as the current leases or that we would be
able to lease those properties at all.

 

Our ownership of properties through ground leases
exposes us to the loss of such
 
properties
upon breach or termination of the ground leases

 

We have acquired an interest in certain of our
properties by acquiring a leasehold interest in the property on which the
building is located, and we may acquire additional properties in the future
through the purchase of interests in ground leases. As the lessee under a
ground lease, we are exposed to the possibility of losing the property upon
termination of the ground lease or an earlier breach of the ground lease by us.

 

Illiquidity of real estate investments could
significantly impede our ability to

respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties

 

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our
ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes
in economic and other conditions will be limited. No assurances can be given
that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell
for liquidity reasons. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the
performance of our investments could 

33

 

 

 

 

adversely affect
our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are exposed
to the risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate, and in
particular, the seniors housing and health care industries. A downturn in the
real estate industry could adversely affect the value of our properties and our
ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to us.

 

Risk factors related to reinvestment of sale proceeds

 

From time to time, we will have cash available from
(1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments
on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including
non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar
financial support arrangements. In order to maintain current revenues and
continue generating attractive returns, we expect to re-invest these proceeds
in a timely manner. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety
of potential investors. This competition for attractive investments may
negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to
us.

 

Failure to properly manage our rapid growth could
distract our management or increase

our expenses

 

We have experienced rapid growth and development in a
relatively short period of time and expect to continue this rapid growth in the
future. This growth has resulted in increased levels of responsibility for our
management. Future property acquisitions could place significant additional
demands on, and require us to expand, our management, resources and personnel.
Our failure to manage any such rapid growth effectively could harm our business
and, in particular, our financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows, which could negatively affect our ability to make distributions to
stockholders. Our growth could also increase our capital requirements, which
may require us to issue potentially dilutive equity securities and incur
additional debt.

 

Ownership of property outside the United States may subject us to different or greater risks than those associated with our
domestic operations

 

We have operations in Canada and the United Kingdom. International
development, ownership, and operating activities involve risks that are
different from those we face with respect to our domestic properties and
operations. These risks include, but are not limited to, any international
currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange rates may not
qualify under the 75% gross income test or the 95% gross income test that we
must satisfy annually in order to qualify and maintain our status as a REIT;

challenges with respect to the repatriation of foreign earnings and cash;
changes in foreign political, regulatory, and economic conditions, including
regionally, nationally, and locally; challenges in managing international
operations; challenges of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and
regulations, including those relating to real estate, corporate governance,
operations, taxes, employment and legal proceedings; 
foreign
ownership restrictions with respect to operations in countries; differences in
lending practices and the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide
financing; regional or country-specific business cycles and economic
instability; and changes in applicable laws and regulations in the United
States that affect foreign operations. If we are unable to successfully manage
the risks associated with international expansion and operations, our results
of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.

 

Risk factors related to changes in currency exchange
rates

 

As we expand our operations internationally, currency
exchange rate fluctuations could affect our results of operations and financial
position. We expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and
expenses in such foreign currencies as the Canadian dollar and the British
pound. Although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial
institutions and/or obtain local currency mortgage debt in order to reduce our
exposure to fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, we cannot assure you that foreign currency
fluctuations will not have a material adverse effect on us.

 

We might fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT

 

We intend to operate as a REIT under the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and believe we have and will
continue to operate in such a manner. If we lose our status as a REIT, we will
face serious income tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds
available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our
stockholders because:

 

• we would not be
allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable
income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate
rates;

 

• we could be subject to
the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local
taxes; and

 

• unless we are entitled
to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax
as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were
disqualified.

34

 

 

 

 

 

Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number
of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and
if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of U.S. federal and other
income taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could
distribute to our stockholders. If we do not qualify as a REIT, we would not be
required to make distributions to stockholders since a non-REIT is not required
to pay dividends to stockholders in order to maintain REIT status or avoid an
excise tax. See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal
Income Tax Considerations” for a discussion of the provisions of the Code that
apply to us and the effects of failure to qualify as a REIT.

 

In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, all
distributions to stockholders would continue to be treated as dividends to the
extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, although corporate
stockholders may be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and
individual stockholders may be eligible for taxation at the rates generally
applicable to long-term capital gains (currently at a maximum rate of 20%) with
respect to distributions.

 

As a result of all these factors, our failure to
qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to implement our business
strategy and would adversely affect the value of our common stock.

 

Qualification as a REIT involves the application of
highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited
judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various
factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect
our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Although we believe that we qualify
as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain
qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. See
“Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal Income Tax
Considerations” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

The 90% annual distribution requirement will decrease
our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial
transactions

 

To comply with the 90% distribution requirement
applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make
distributions to our stockholders. See “Item 1 — Business
— Taxation — Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification
as a REIT — Annual Distribution Requirements” included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. Although we anticipate that we generally will have
sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT distribution
requirement, it is possible that, from time to time, we may not have sufficient
cash or other liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or we may
decide to retain cash or distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to
avoid income and excise taxation. This may be due to timing differences between
the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the
one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in
arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition, non-deductible
expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures
in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash
or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. In
the event that timing differences occur, or we deem it appropriate to retain
cash, we may borrow funds, issue additional equity securities (although we
cannot assure you that we will be able to do so), pay taxable stock dividends,
if possible, distribute other property or securities or engage in another
transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements.
This may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations.

 

The lease of qualified health care properties to a taxable
REIT subsidiary is subject to special requirements

 

We lease certain qualified health care properties to
taxable REIT subsidiaries (or limited liability companies of which the taxable
REIT subsidiaries are members), which lessees contract with managers (or
related parties) to manage the health care operations at these properties. The
rents from this taxable REIT subsidiary lessee structure are treated as
qualifying rents from real property if (1) they are paid pursuant to an
arms-length lease of a qualified health care property with a taxable REIT
subsidiary and (2) the manager qualifies as an eligible independent contractor
(as defined in the Code). If any of these conditions are not satisfied, then
the rents will not be qualifying rents. See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation —
Federal Income Tax Considerations — Qualification as a REIT — Income Tests.”

 

If certain sale-leaseback transactions are not
characterized by the Internal Revenue Service as “true leases,” we may be
subject to adverse tax consequences

 

We have purchased certain properties and leased them
back to the sellers of such properties, and we may enter into similar transactions
in the future. We intend for any such sale-leaseback transaction to be
structured in such a manner that the lease will be characterized as a “true
lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for U.S.
federal income tax purposes. However, depending on the terms of any specific
transaction, the Internal Revenue Service might take the position that the
transaction is not a “true lease” but is more properly treated in some other
manner. In the event any sale-leaseback transaction is challenged and
successfully re-characterized by the Internal Revenue Service, we would not be
entitled to claim the deductions for depreciation and 

35

 

 

 

 

cost recovery generally
available to an owner of property. Furthermore, if a sale-leaseback transaction
were so re-characterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT asset tests or
income tests and, consequently, could lose our REIT status effective with the
year of re-characterization. See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal
Income Tax Considerations — Qualification as a REIT — Asset Tests” and “—
Income Tests.” Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be
recalculated, which may cause us to fail to meet the REIT annual distribution
requirements for a taxable year. See “Item 1 — Business — Taxation — Federal
Income Tax Considerations — Qualification as a REIT — Annual Distribution
Requirements.”

 

Other risk factors

 

We are also subject to other risks. First, our certificate
of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions (restrictions on
share ownership and transfer and super majority stockholder approval
requirements for business combinations) that could make it more difficult for
or even prevent a third party from acquiring us without the approval of our
incumbent Board of Directors. Provisions and agreements that inhibit or
discourage takeover attempts could reduce the market value of our common stock.

 

Additionally, we are dependent on key personnel.
Although we have entered into employment agreements with our executive
officers, losing any one of them could, at least temporarily, have an adverse
impact on our operations. We believe that losing more than one could have a
material adverse impact on our business.