Backlog represents committed orders that are expected to be recognized as revenue over the following three years. We currently expect that
$1.17 billion of our backlog will be recognized after fiscal 2013. 

 
 
6 

Table of Contents

Backlog may not be a reliable predictor of our future sales as business conditions may change and technologies may evolve, and customers may seek to renegotiate their arrangements or may default
on their payment obligations. For this and other reasons, we may not be able to recognize expected revenue from backlog when anticipated. 

Revenue attributable to each of our four platforms established for management reporting purposes is shown below as a percentage of total revenue for
the last three fiscal years: 
 
 
 

 
Revenue derived from Intel Corporation and its subsidiaries in the aggregate accounted for 10.5%, 10.6%, and
10.9% of our total revenue in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 
Research and Development 

Our future performance depends in large part on our ability to further enhance and extend our design and verification platforms and to expand our
manufacturing, IP and system-level product offerings. Research and development on existing and new products is primarily conducted within each product group. We also use targeted acquisitions to augment our own research and development efforts.

 
Our research and development expenses were $581.6 million, $491.9 million and $449.2 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Our capitalized software development costs were approximately $3.3 million, $2.9 million and $2.9 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 
Competition 
 
The EDA industry is highly competitive. We compete against other
EDA vendors and against our customers’ own design tools and internal design capabilities. In general, we compete principally on technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license terms, post-contract customer
support, interoperability with our own and other vendors’ products, price and payment terms. No one factor drives an EDA customer’s buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers’ budgets.

 
Our competitors include EDA vendors that offer varying ranges of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and
Mentor Graphics Corporation. We also compete with other EDA vendors, including frequent new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as with customers’ internally
developed design tools and capabilities. In the IP area, we compete primarily with our customers’ internally developed IP. 

 
 
7 

Table of Contents

Product Sales and Licensing Agreements 

We typically license our software to customers under non-exclusive license agreements that transfer title to the media only and restrict use of our
software to specified purposes within specified geographical areas. The majority of our licenses are network licenses that allow a number of individual users to access the software on a defined network, including, in some cases, regional or global
networks. License fees depend on the type of license, product mix and number of copies of each product licensed. 
 
In many cases, we
provide our customers the right to “re-mix” a portion of the software they initially licensed for other specified Synopsys products. For example, a customer may use our front-end design products for a portion of the license term and then
exchange such products for back-end place and route software for the remainder of the term in order to complete the customer’s IC design. This practice helps assure the customer’s access to the complete design flow needed to design its
product. The ability to offer this right to customers often gives us an advantage over competitors who offer a narrower range of products because customers can obtain more of their design flow from a single vendor. At the same time, because in such
cases the customer need not obtain a new license and pay an additional license fee for the use of the additional products, the use of these arrangements could result in reduced revenue compared to licensing the individual products separately without
re-mix rights. 
 
We currently offer our software products under various license types: renewable TSLs, term licenses and perpetual
licenses. For a full discussion of these licenses, see Part II, Item 7, 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
 and 
Results of
Operations
—
Revenue Background
. 
 
We typically license our DesignWare Core intellectual property products under
nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific applications. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design basis plus, in some cases, royalties. 

Finally, our Global Technical Services team typically provides design consulting services to our customers under consulting agreements with
statements of work specific to each project. 
 
Proprietary Rights 

Synopsys primarily relies upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws and license and nondisclosure agreements to
establish and protect its proprietary rights. We have a diversified portfolio of more than 1600 patents issued. Our issued patents have expiration dates through 2032. Our patents primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection
with our products. Our source code is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyrighted work. However, third parties may develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be
unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. We currently hold United States and foreign patents on some of the technologies included in our products and will continue to pursue additional patents in the future. We are not significantly
dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark or license with respect to our proprietary rights. 
 
In many cases, under our
customer agreements and other license agreements, we offer to indemnify our customers if the licensed products infringe on a third party’s intellectual property rights. As a result, we are from time to time subject to claims that our products
infringe on these third party rights. 
 
Employees 
 
As of October 31, 2012, Synopsys had 8,138 employees, of which 3,355 were based in the United States. 

 
 
8 

Table of Contents

Acquisitions in Fiscal 2012 

For information about acquisitions we completed during fiscal 2012, see Note 3 of 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
.

 
Executive Officers of the Registrant 
 
The executive officers of Synopsys and their ages as of December 19, 2012 were: 
 
 

 
Name

 

 
Age

 

 
Position

 
Aart J. de Geus

 

58

 

Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors

 
Chi-Foon Chan

 

63

 

 
Co-Chief Executive Officer and President

 
Brian M. Beattie

 

59

 

 
Chief Financial Officer

 
Joseph W. Logan

 

53

 

 
Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales

 
Brian E. Cabrera

 

47

 

Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

 
Aart J. de Geus
 co-founded Synopsys and has served as Chairman of our Board of Directors since February
1998 and Chief Executive Officer since January 1994. In May 2012, Dr. Chi-Foon Chan was appointed Co-Chief Executive Officer of Synopsys with Dr. de Geus. Since the inception of Synopsys in December 1986, Dr. de Geus has held a
variety of positions, including President, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing. He has served as a member of Synopsys’ Board of Directors since 1986, and served as Chairman of our Board from 1986 to 1992
and again from 1998 until present. Dr. de Geus has also served on the board of directors of Applied Materials, Inc. since July 2007. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland
and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University. 
 
Chi-Foon Chan
 
has served as our Co-Chief
Executive Officer since May 2012 and as our President and a member of our Board of Directors since February 1998. Prior to his appointment as our Co-Chief Executive Officer in May 2012, he had served as our Chief Operating Officer since April 1997.
Dr. Chan joined Synopsys in May 1990 and has held various senior management positions, including Executive Vice President, Office of the President from September 1996 to February 1998 and Senior Vice President, Design Tools Group from February
1994 to April 1997. Dr. Chan has also held senior management and engineering positions at NEC Electronics and Intel Corporation. Dr. Chan holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Rutgers University, and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Computer
Engineering from Case Western Reserve University. 
 
Brian M. Beattie
 has served as our Chief Financial Officer since January 2006.
From October 1999 to January 2006, he was Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SupportSoft, Inc. From May 1998 to May 1999, he served as Vice President of Finance, Mergers and Acquisitions of
Nortel Networks Corporation. From July 1996 to April 1998, Mr. Beattie served as Group Vice President of Meridian Solutions of Nortel Networks Corporation. From February 1993 to June 1996, Mr. Beattie served as Vice President of Finance,
Enterprise Networks, for Nortel Networks Corporation. Mr. Beattie served on the board of directors of Unwired Planet, Inc. (formerly Openwave Systems Inc.) from December 2010 until November 2012. Mr. Beattie holds a Bachelor of Commerce
and an M.B.A. from Concordia University in Montreal. 
 
Joseph W. Logan
 has served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales
since September 2006. Previously, he was head of sales for Synopsys’ North America East region from September 2001 to September 2006. Prior to Synopsys, Mr. Logan was head of North American Sales and Support at Avant! Corporation.
Mr. Logan holds a B.S.E.E. from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. 
 
Brian E. Cabrera
 has served as our Vice President,
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since June 2006. From August 1999 to June 2006, he held various positions with Callidus Software, 

 
 
9 

Table of Contents

most recently as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and prior to 2004 as General Counsel and Vice President of Operations and Human Resources. Prior to Callidus,
Mr. Cabrera held senior legal positions at PeopleSoft, Netscape Communications, and Silicon Graphics. Mr. Cabrera holds a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and Philosophy and a Masters in Public Administration from the University of
Southern California, as well as a Juris Doctorate from the University of Southern California Law School. 
 
There are no family
relationships among any Synopsys executive officers or directors. 
 
 

 
Item 1A. 
Risk Factors

 
A description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. Investors should carefully
consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. 
 
The continued uncertainty in the global economy, and
its potential impact on the semiconductor and electronics industries in particular, may negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 
 
As a result of the recent global recession, the global economy experienced significant uncertainty, stock market volatility, tightened credit markets, concerns about both deflation and inflation, reduced demand for
products, lower consumer confidence, reduced capital spending, liquidity concerns and business insolvencies. Further declines, and uncertainty about future economic conditions, could negatively impact our customers’ businesses, reducing demand
for our products and adversely affecting our business. 
 
The recent global recession adversely affected the semiconductor industry.
Semiconductor companies generally remain cautious and focused on their costs, including their research and development budgets which capture spending on EDA products and services. These factors could among other things limit our ability to maintain
or increase our sales or recognize revenue from committed contracts and in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 
 
Under our business model, we generally expect more than 90% of our total revenue to be recurring revenue, as a substantial majority of our customers pay for licenses over a multi-year period. However, the turmoil
and uncertainty caused by recent economic conditions caused some of our customers to postpone their decision-making, decrease their spending and/or delay their payments to us. If payment defaults by our customers significantly increase or we
experience significant reductions in existing contractual commitments, our operating results would be harmed. Furthermore, future periods of decreased committed average annual revenue, customer bankruptcies, or consolidation among our customers,
could adversely affect our year-over-year revenue growth. 
 
The recent global recession also adversely affected the banking and financial
industry. If the global economy continues to experience uncertainty, our ability to obtain credit on favorable terms could be jeopardized. Furthermore, we rely on several large financial institutions to act as counterparties under our foreign
currency forward contracts, provide credit and banking transactions and deposit services worldwide. Should any of our banking partners declare bankruptcy or otherwise default on their obligations, it could adversely affect our financial results and
our business. 
 
We cannot predict if or when global economic confidence will be restored. Accordingly, our future business and financial
results are subject to considerable uncertainty, and our stock price is at risk of volatile change. If economic conditions deteriorate in the future, or, in particular, if the semiconductor industry does not continue to grow, our future revenues and
financial results could be adversely affected. Conversely, in the event of future improvements in economic conditions for our customers, the positive impact on our revenues and financial results may be deferred due to our business model. 

 
 
10 

Table of Contents

The growth of our business depends on the semiconductor and electronics industries.

 
The growth of the EDA industry as a whole, and our business in particular, is dependent on the semiconductor and electronics
industries. A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends upon the commencement of new design projects by semiconductor manufacturers and their customers. The increasing complexity of designs of SoCs and ICs, and customers’ concerns
about managing costs, have previously led and in the future could lead to a decrease in design starts and design activity in general, with some customers focusing more on one discrete phase of the design process. Demand for our products and services
could decrease and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if the semiconductor and electronics industries do not continue to grow, or grow at a slower rate. Additionally, as the EDA industry matures,
consolidation has increased competition for a greater share of our customers’ EDA spending. This increased competition may cause our revenue growth rate to decline and exert downward pressure on our operating margins, which may have an adverse
effect on our business and financial condition. 
 
Furthermore, the semiconductor and electronics industries have become increasingly
complex ecosystems. Many of our customers outsource the manufacture of their semiconductor designs to foundries. Our customers also frequently incorporate third-party IP, whether provided by us or other vendors, into their designs to improve the
efficiency of their design process. We work closely with major foundries to ensure that our EDA, IP, and manufacturing solutions are compatible with their manufacturing processes. Similarly, we work closely with other major providers of
semiconductor IP, particularly microprocessor IP, to optimize our EDA tools for use with their IP designs and to assure that their IP and our own IP products, which may each provide for the design of separate components on the same chip, work
effectively together. If we fail to optimize our EDA and IP solutions for use with major foundries’ manufacturing processes or major IP providers’ products, or if our access to such foundry processes or third-party IP products is hampered,
then our solutions may become less desirable to our customers, resulting in an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 

We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the acquisitions we complete, or find suitable target
businesses and technology to acquire, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. 
 
Acquisitions are an important part of our growth strategy. We have completed a significant number of acquisitions in recent years, including the recent acquisitions of Magma Design Automation, Inc. (Magma),
SpringSoft, Inc. and Emulation & Verification Engineering S.A. (EVE). 
 
We expect to make additional acquisitions in the future,
but we may not find suitable acquisition targets or we may not be able to consummate desired acquisitions due to unfavorable credit markets or other risks, which could harm our operating results. Acquisitions are difficult, time consuming, and pose
a number of risks, including: 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Potential negative impact on our earnings per share; 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Failure of acquired products to achieve projected sales; 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Problems in integrating the acquired products with our products; 

 

 

•

 

 
Difficulties entering into new market segments in which we are not experienced; 

 

 

•

 

 
Potential downward pressure on operating margins due to lower operating margins of acquired businesses, increased headcount costs and other expenses associated
with adding and supporting new products; 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Difficulties in retaining and integrating key employees; 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Failure to realize expected synergies or cost savings; 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Dilution of our current stockholders through the issuance of common stock, a substantial reduction of our cash resources and/or the incurrence of debt;

 
 
11 

Table of Contents

 

•

 

 
Assumption of unknown liabilities, including tax and litigation, and the related expenses and diversion of resources; 

 

 

•

 

 
Disruption of ongoing business operations, including diversion of management’s attention; 

 

 

•

 

 
Potential negative impact on our relationships with customers, distributors and business partners; and 

 

 

•

 

 
Negative impact on our earnings resulting from the application of ASC 805, 
Business Combinations
. 

If we do not manage these risks, the acquisitions that we complete may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. For instance,
if we are unable to successfully integrate Magma products and technology, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated revenue growth from our Magma acquisition. In addition, expenses associated with supporting Magma’s products could result in
less expense synergies than anticipated. The integration process may involve significant management time and create uncertainty for employees and customers, and delays in the process could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses,
operating results and financial condition. Additionally, if we determine we cannot use or sell the acquired products or technology, we will be required to write down the associated intangible assets, which would negatively impact our operating
results. 
 
Consolidation among our customers, as well as within the industries in which we operate, may negatively impact our
operating results. 
 
A number of business combinations, including mergers, asset acquisitions and strategic partnerships, among
our customers and in the semiconductor and electronics industries have occurred recently, and more could occur in the future. Consolidation among our customers could lead to fewer customers or the loss of customers, increased customer bargaining
power, or reduced customer spending on software and services. Moreover, business combinations within the industries in which we compete may result in stronger competition from companies that are better able to compete as sole source vendors to
customers. The loss of customers or reduced customer spending could adversely affect our business and financial condition. 
 
In addition,
we and our competitors from time to time acquire business and technologies to complement and expand our respective product offerings. If any of our competitors consolidate or acquire businesses and technologies which we do not offer, they may be
able to offer a larger technology portfolio, a larger support and service capability, or lower prices, which could negatively impact our business and operating results. 
 
Changes in accounting principles or standards, or in the way they are applied, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or effects and unexpected financial reporting fluctuations, and could adversely
affect our reported operating results. 
 
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. A change in existing principles or guidance can have a
significant effect on our reported results and may retroactively affect previously reported results. Additionally, proposed accounting standards could have a significant impact on our operational processes, revenues and expenses, and could cause
unexpected financial reporting fluctuations. 
 
For example, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is currently working together
with the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) to converge certain accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies that are required to follow GAAP and those that are required to follow
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). These efforts 

 
 
12 

Table of Contents

may result in different accounting principles under GAAP, which may have a material impact on the way in which we report financial results in areas including, but not limited to, revenue
recognition, lease accounting, and financial statement presentation. The SEC may make a determination in the future regarding the incorporation of IFRS into the financial reporting system for U.S. companies. A change in accounting principles from
GAAP to IFRS or to converged accounting principles may have a material impact on our financial statements and may retroactively adversely affect previously reported transactions. 

Our operating results may fluctuate in the future, which may adversely affect our stock price. 

Our operating results are subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our historical results should
not be viewed as indicative of our future performance due to these periodic fluctuations. Many factors may cause our revenue or earnings to fluctuate, including: 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Changes in demand for our products due to fluctuations in demand for our customers’ products and due to constraints in our customers’ budgets for
research and development and EDA products and services; 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Product competition in the EDA industry, which can change rapidly due to industry or customer consolidation and technological innovation;

 
 

 

•

 

 
Our ability to innovate and introduce new products and services or effectively integrate products and technologies that we acquire; 

 

 

•

 

 
Failures or delays in completing sales due to our lengthy sales cycle, which often includes a substantial customer evaluation and approval process because of the
complexity of our products and services; 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Cancellations or changes to levels of license orders or the mix between upfront revenue and time-based license revenue; 

 

 

•

 

 
Our ability to implement effective cost control measures; 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Delay of one or more orders for a particular period, particularly orders generating upfront revenue; 

 

 

•

 

 
Our dependence on a relatively small number of large customers for a large portion of our revenue; 

 

 

•

 

 
Changes in or challenges to our revenue recognition model; 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Amendments or renewals of customer contracts which provide discounts or require the deferral of revenue to later periods; 

 

 

•

 

 
Expenses related to our acquisition and integration of businesses and technology; 

 

 

•

 

 
Delays, increased costs or quality issues resulting from our reliance on third parties to manufacture our hardware products; and 

 

 

•

 

 
General economic and political conditions that affect the semiconductor and electronics industries. 

These factors, or any other factors or risks discussed herein, could negatively impact our revenue or earnings and cause our stock price to decline.

 
We operate in highly competitive industries, and if we do not continue to meet our customers’ demand for innovative
technology at lower costs, our business and financial condition will be harmed. 
 
We compete against EDA vendors that offer a
variety of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation. We also compete with other EDA vendors, including frequent new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more

 
 
13 

Table of Contents

discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as vendors of IP products and system-level solutions. Moreover, our customers internally develop design tools and capabilities that compete with
our products. 
 
The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and the demand for our products and services is dynamic and
depends on a number of factors, including demand for our customers’ products, design starts and our customers’ budgetary constraints. Technology in these industries evolves rapidly and is characterized by frequent product
introductions and improvements and changes in industry standards and customer requirements. Semiconductor device functionality requirements continually increase while feature widths decrease, substantially increasing the complexity, cost and
risk of chip design and manufacturing. At the same time, our customers and potential customers continue to demand an overall lower total cost of design, which can lead to the consolidation of their purchases with one vendor. In order to succeed
in this environment, we must successfully meet our customers’ technology requirements and increase the value of our products, while also striving to reduce their overall costs and our own operating costs. 

We compete principally on the basis of technology, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license or usage terms, post-contract
customer support, interoperability among products, and price and payment terms. Specifically, we believe the following competitive factors affect our success: 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Our ability to anticipate and lead critical development cycles, innovate rapidly and efficiently, improve our existing products, and successfully develop or
acquire new products; 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Our ability to offer products that provide both a high level of integration into a comprehensive platform and a high level of individual product performance;

 
 

 

•

 

 
Our ability to enhance the value of our offering through more favorable terms such as expanded license usage, future purchase rights, price discounts and other
unique rights, such as multiple tool copies, post-contract customer support, and the ability to purchase pools of technology; and 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Our ability to compete on the basis of payment terms. 
 
If we fail to successfully manage these competitive factors, fail to successfully balance the conflicting demands for innovative technology and lower overall costs, or fail to address new competitive forces, our
business and financial condition will be adversely affected. 
 
If we fail to protect our proprietary technology our business will
be harmed. 
 
Our success depends in part upon protecting our proprietary technology. Our efforts to protect our technology may be
costly and unsuccessful. We rely on agreements with customers, employees and others and on intellectual property laws worldwide to protect our proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any
breach. Additionally, despite our measures to prevent piracy, other parties may attempt to illegally copy or use our products, which could result in lost revenue. Some foreign countries do not currently provide effective legal protection for
intellectual property and our ability to prevent the unauthorized use of our products in those countries is therefore limited. Our trade secrets may also otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. 

We may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: 

 

 

•

 

 
Assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property; 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Defend our products from piracy; 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Protect our trade secrets or know-how; or 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. 

 
 
14 

Table of Contents

If we do not obtain or maintain appropriate patent, copyright or trade secret protection, for any
reason, or cannot fully defend our intellectual property rights in some jurisdictions, our business and operating results would be harmed. In addition, intellectual property litigation is lengthy, expensive and uncertain and legal fees related to
such litigation will increase our operating expenses and may reduce our net income. 
 
Unfavorable tax law changes, an unfavorable
government review of our tax returns or changes in our geographical earnings mix or forecasts of foreign source income could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our operating results. 

Our operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions. A change in the tax law in
the jurisdictions in which we do business, including an increase in tax rates or an adverse change in the treatment of an item of income or expense, could result in a material increase in our tax expense. Currently, a substantial portion of our
revenue is generated from customers located outside the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the United States. United States income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been
provided on undistributed earnings for certain non-United States subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. A number of proposals for broad reform of the corporate
tax system in the U.S. are under evaluation by various legislative and administrative bodies but it is not possible to determine accurately the overall impact of such proposals on our effective tax rate at this time. 

Our tax filings are subject to review or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We exercise judgment
in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are also liable for potential tax liabilities of
businesses we acquire. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, we can provide no assurance that any final determination in an audit will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions
and accruals. An assessment of additional taxes as a result of an audit could adversely affect our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. 

We have operations in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions with a wide range of statutory tax rates. Therefore, any changes in
our geographical earnings mix in various tax jurisdictions, including those resulting from transfer pricing adjustments, could materially impact our effective tax rate. Furthermore, we maintain significant deferred tax assets related to federal
research credits and foreign tax credits and certain state tax credits. Our ability to use these credits is dependent upon having sufficient future taxable income, including foreign source income in the United States, as well as sufficient taxable
income in certain states. Changes in our forecasts of future income could result in an adjustment to the deferred tax asset and a related charge to earnings which could materially affect our financial results. 

We may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively
affect our operating results. 
 
We devote substantial resources to research and development. New competitors, technological
advances by existing competitors, our acquisitions, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors may require us to invest significantly greater resources than we anticipate. If we are required to invest significantly greater resources
than anticipated without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. Additionally, our periodic research and development expenses may be independent of our level of revenue which could negatively impact our financial
results. Finally, there can be no guarantee that our research and development investments will result in products that create significant, or even any, revenue. 

 
 
15 

Table of Contents

The global nature of our operations exposes us to increased risks and compliance obligations
which may adversely affect our business. 
 
We derive more than half of our revenue from sales outside the United States, and we
expect our orders and revenue to continue to depend on sales to customers outside the United States. In addition, we have expanded our non-U.S. operations significantly in the past several years. This strategy requires us to recruit and retain
qualified technical and managerial employees, manage multiple, remote locations performing complex software development projects and ensure intellectual property protection outside of the United States. Our international operations and sales subject
us to a number of increased risks, including: 
 
 

 

•

 

 
International economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business; 

 

 

•

 

 
Difficulties in adapting to cultural differences in the conduct of business; 

 

 

•

 

 
Ineffective legal protection of intellectual property rights; 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Financial risks such as longer payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; 

 

 

•

 

 
Inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions; 

 

 

•

 

 
Government trade restrictions, including tariffs or other trade barriers; 

 

 

•

 

 
Additional taxes and penalties; and 
 
 

 

•

 

 
Other factors beyond our control such as natural disasters, terrorism, civil unrest, war and infectious diseases. 

If any of the foreign economies in which we do business deteriorate or if we fail to effectively manage our global operations, our business and
results of operations will be harmed. 
 
In addition, our global operations are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations,
including those related to anti-corruption, tax, corporate governance, imports and exports, financial and other disclosures, privacy and labor relations. These laws and regulations are complex and may have differing or conflicting legal standards,
making compliance difficult and costly. If we violate these laws and regulations we could be subject to fines, penalties or criminal sanctions, and may be prohibited from conducting business in one or more countries. Although we have implemented
policies and procedures to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these laws and regulations. Any violation individually or in the aggregate could have
a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. 
 
Our financial statements are also affected by fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates. A weakening U.S. dollar relative to other currencies increases expenses of our foreign subsidiaries when they are translated into U.S. dollars in our consolidated statement of operations. Likewise, a strengthening
U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, especially the Japanese yen, reduces revenue of our foreign subsidiaries upon translation and consolidation. Exchange rates are subject to significant and rapid fluctuations, and therefore we cannot predict
the prospective impact of exchange rate fluctuations. Although we engage in foreign currency hedging activity, we may be unable to hedge all of our foreign currency risk, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. 

Liquidity requirements in our U.S. operations may require us to raise cash in uncertain capital markets, which could negatively affect our
financial condition. 
 
As of December 7, 2012, we have outstanding debt of $135.0 million under our term loan facility,
primarily as a result of funding our Magma acquisition. Most of our worldwide cash, cash equivalents and short term investments balance is held in subsidiary accounts outside the United States—approximately 72% as of October 31,
2012. In addition, typically about half of our operating cash flow is received by our overseas subsidiaries. Should our cash spending needs in the United States rise and exceed our existing U.S. balances, available credit under our
revolving credit and term loan 

 
 
16 

Table of Contents

facilities, and future U.S. cash flows, we may be required to incur additional debt at higher than anticipated interest rates or access other funding sources, which could negatively affect our
results of operations, capital structure and/or the market price of our common stock. 
 
From time to time we are subject to claims
that our products infringe on third party intellectual property rights. 
 
We are from time to time subject to claims alleging our
infringement of third party intellectual property rights, including patent rights. For example, in December 2011, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed against us by Dynetix Design Solutions, Inc., which seeks, among other things, compensatory
damages and a permanent injunction. We may also acquire companies that are party to existing infringement claims. For example, EVE, a company we acquired in October 2012, is a party to ongoing patent infringement lawsuits involving Mentor Graphics
Corporation. Further information regarding the Dynetix and EVE lawsuits is contained in Part I, Item 3, 
Legal Proceedings
. In addition, under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we agree in many cases to indemnify our
customers if our products infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights. Infringement claims can result in costly and time-consuming litigation, require us to enter into royalty arrangements, subject us to damages or injunctions
restricting our sale of products, invalidate a patent or family of patents, require us to refund license fees to our customers or to forgo future payments or require us to redesign certain of our products, any one of which could harm our business
and operating results. 
 
Product errors or defects could expose us to liability and harm our reputation and we could lose market
share. 
 
Software products frequently contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced, when new versions are released
or when integrated with technologies developed by acquired companies. Product errors could affect the performance or interoperability of our products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could
adversely affect market acceptance or perception of our products. In addition, allegations of IC manufacturability issues resulting from use of our IP products could, even if untrue, adversely affect our reputation and our customers’
willingness to license IP products from us. Any such errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products or allegations of unsatisfactory performance could cause us to lose customers, increase our service costs, subject us to
liability for damages and divert our resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. 
 
We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. 
 
We may be
subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues on a global basis. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include
monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling on a matter, our business and results of operations
could be materially harmed. Further information regarding material pending lawsuits, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business, is contained in Part I, Item 3, 
Legal Proceedings
. 

If we fail to timely recruit and retain senior management and key employees our business may be harmed. 

We depend in large part upon the services of key members of our senior management team to drive our future success. If we were to lose the
services of any member of our senior management team, our business could be adversely affected. To be successful, we must also attract and retain key technical, sales and managerial employees, including those who join Synopsys in connection with
acquisitions. There are a limited number of qualified EDA and IC design engineers, and competition for these individuals is intense and has increased. Our employees are often recruited aggressively by our competitors and our customers. Any
failure to recruit and retain key technical, sales and managerial 

 
 
17 

Table of Contents

employees could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, efforts to recruit and retain qualified employees could be costly and negatively impact our
operating expenses. 
 
We issue stock options and restricted stock units and maintain employee stock purchase plans as a key component of
our overall compensation. We face pressure to limit the use of such equity-based compensation due to its dilutive effect on stockholders. In addition, we are required under GAAP to recognize compensation expense in our results from operations for
employee share-based equity compensation under our equity grants and our employee stock purchase plan, which has increased the pressure to limit equity-based compensation. These factors may make it more difficult for us to grant attractive
equity-based packages in the future, which could adversely impact and limit our ability to attract and retain key employees. 
 
Our
business is subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure regulations that have increased both our compliance costs and the risk of noncompliance, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 

We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulated organizations, including the SEC, the
NASDAQ Stock Market, and the FASB. These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity and many new requirements have been created in response to laws enacted by Congress, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. For
example, Congress recently passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Our efforts to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and other new regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and
administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. 

There are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls. 

Regardless of how well designed and operated it is, a control system can provide only reasonable assurance that its objectives will be met. Further,
the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls
can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. Failure of our control systems to prevent error or fraud could have a material adverse impact on our business. 

Our investment portfolio may be impaired by deterioration of the capital markets. 

Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio currently consists of tax-exempt money market mutual funds, taxable money market mutual
funds and bank deposits. Our investment portfolio carries both interest rate risk and credit risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a credit downgrade or a rise in interest rates, while floating rate
securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall or a credit downgrade occurs. As a result of current adverse financial market conditions, capital pressures on certain banks, especially in Europe, and the continuing low
interest rate environment, some of our financial instruments may become impaired. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity
investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. In addition, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in the issuer’s credit quality or changes in interest rates.

 
Security breaches could compromise sensitive information belonging to us or our customers and could harm our business and
reputation. 
 
We store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our
customers, and confidential employee information, in our data centers and on our networks. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to 

 
 
18 

Table of Contents

attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions that could result in unauthorized disclosure or loss of sensitive information. Furthermore, in the
operation of our business we also use third party vendors that store certain sensitive data, including confidential information about our employees, and these third parties are subject to their own cybersecurity threats. Any security breach of our
own or a third party vendor’s systems could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws or regulations, subject us to legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our
products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business. 
 
In preparing our financial statements we make certain
assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements, which, if not accurate, may significantly impact our financial results. 

We make assumptions, judgments and estimates for a number of items, including the fair value of financial instruments, goodwill, long-lived assets
and other intangible assets, the realizability of deferred tax assets, the recognition of revenue and the fair value of stock awards. We also make assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining the accruals for employee related liabilities,
including commissions and variable compensation, and in determining the accruals for uncertain tax positions, allowances for doubtful accounts, and legal contingencies. These assumptions, judgments and estimates are drawn from historical experience
and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates, and such differences could significantly impact
our financial results. 
 
Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and harm our operating results. 

Due to the global nature of our business, our operating results may be negatively impacted by catastrophic events throughout the world. We rely on a
global network of infrastructure applications, enterprise applications and technology systems for our development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a major earthquake,
fire, telecommunications failure, cybersecurity attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, delays in our product development and loss of critical data and could prevent us from fulfilling our
customers’ orders. Moreover, our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, our data centers, and certain other critical business operations are located in California, near major earthquake faults.
A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems would severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our operating
results would be adversely affected.