” of this report, and those discussed in other documents we file with the SEC. Any forward-looking statement made in this report speaks only as of the date of this report, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether because of new information, future events or otherwise. 4 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Jack Henry & Associates, Inc. ("JKHY") is a well-rounded financial technology company. JKHY was founded in 1976 as a provider of core information processing solutions for banks. Today, the Company’s extensive array of products and services includes processing transactions, automating business processes, and managing information for over 7,800 financial institutions and diverse corporate entities. JKHY provides its products and services primarily to financial institutions: • Core bank integrated data processing systems are provided to over 950 banks ranging from de novo to multi-billion-dollar institutions with assets of up to $50 billion. The number of banks we serve has decreased in the last year due to acquisitions and mergers within the banking industry, which are discussed further under the heading "Industry Background" in this Item 1. Our banking solutions support both on-premise and private cloud operating environments with three functionally distinct core processing platforms and more than 140 integrated complementary solutions. • Core credit union data processing solutions are provided to credit unions of all sizes, with a growing client base of nearly 720 credit union customers. There is one flagship core processing platform and more than 100 integrated complementary solutions that support both on-premise and private cloud operating environments. • Non-core highly specialized core-agnostic products and services are also provided to financial institutions. There are more than 100 complementary solutions that offer highly specialized financial performance, imaging and payments processing, information security and risk management, retail delivery, and online and mobile solutions. These products and services enhance the performance of traditional financial services organizations of all asset sizes and charters, and non-traditional diverse corporate entities with over 7,800 customers, comprised of nearly 1,650 of our core customers included in our bank and credit union customers listed above, as well as over 6,150 other non-core customers. Our products and services provide our customers with solutions that can be tailored to support their unique growth, service, operational, and performance goals. Our well-rounded solutions also enable financial institutions to offer the high-demand products and services required by their customers to compete more successfully, and to capitalize on evolving trends shaping the financial services industry. We are committed to exceeding our customers’ service-related expectations. We measure and monitor customer satisfaction using annual surveys and randomly-generated online surveys initiated each day by routine support requests. We believe the results of this extensive survey process confirm that our service consistently exceeds our customers’ expectations and generates excellent customer retention rates. We also focus on establishing long-term customer relationships, continually expanding and strengthening those relationships with cross sales of additional products and services, earning new financial and non-financial clients, and ensuring our product offerings are highly competitive. The majority of our revenue is derived from support and services provided by our private cloud services for our hosted customers that are typically on a seven-year or greater contract, recurring electronic payment solutions that are also generally on a contract term of seven years or greater, and to our on-premise customers that are typically on a one-year contract. Less predictable software license fees, paid by customers implementing our software solutions on-premise, and hardware sales, including all non-software products that we re-market in order to support our software systems, complement our primary revenue sources. Information regarding the classification of our business into four separate segments is set forth in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements (see Item 8). JKHY’s progress and performance have been guided by the focused work ethic and fundamental ideals fostered by the Company’s founders 46 years ago: • Do the right thing • Do whatever it takes • Have fun We recognize that our associates and their collective contribution are ultimately responsible for JKHY’s past, present, and future success. Recruiting and retaining high-quality employees is essential to our ongoing growth and financial performance, and we believe we have established an organizational culture that sustains high levels of employee engagement. For further discussion of our human capital considerations, see "Human Capital" below. COVID-19 Impact and Response Since its outbreak in early calendar 2020, COVID-19 has rapidly spread and continues to represent a public health concern. The health, safety, and well-being of our employees and customers is of paramount importance to us. In 5 March 2020, we established an internal task force composed of executive officers and other members of management to frequently assess updates to the COVID-19 situation and recommend Company actions. We offered remote working as a recommended option to employees whose job duties allowed them to work off-site, and we suspended all non-essential business travel. As of August 15, 2022, the majority of our employees were continuing to work remotely either full time or in a hybrid capacity. We have announced that our official return-to-office date is September 6, 2022, though employees have been permitted to voluntarily return to the office since May 2, 2022. Individual decisions on returning to the office will be manager-coordinated and based on conversations with specific teams and departments. A large number of our employees have requested to remain fully remote or participate in a hybrid approach where they would split their time between remote and in-person working. While our business travel is normalizing, we do not expect it to return to pre-pandemic levels and continue to encourage a cautious approach to business travel activities. Customers We work closely with our customers who are scheduled for on-site visits to ensure their needs are met while taking necessary safety precautions when our employees are required to be at a customer site. Delays of customer system installations due to COVID-19 have been limited, and we have developed processes to handle remote installations when available. We expect these processes to provide flexibility and value both during and after the COVID-19 pandemic. Even though a substantial portion of our workforce has worked remotely during the outbreak and business travel has been limited, we have not yet experienced significant disruption to our operations. We believe our technological capabilities are well positioned to allow our employees to work remotely without materially impacting our business. Financial impact Despite the changes and restrictions caused by COVID-19, the overall financial and operational impact on our business has been limited and our liquidity, balance sheet, and business trends remain strong. We experienced positive operating cash flows during fiscal 2022, and we do not expect that to change in the near term. However, we are unable to accurately predict the future impact of COVID-19 due to a number of uncertainties, including further government actions; the duration, severity and recurrence of the outbreak, including the onset of variants of the virus; the effectiveness of vaccines against new variants; the development and effectiveness of treatments; the effect on the economy generally; the potential impact to our customers, vendors, and employees; and how the potential impact might affect future customer services, processing and installation-related revenue, and processes and efficiencies within the Company directly or indirectly impacting financial results. We will continue to monitor COVID-19 and its possible impact on the Company and to take steps necessary to protect the health and safety of our employees and customers. For a further discussion of the uncertainties and risks associated with COVID-19, see Part II, Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Industry Background Our core banking solutions serve commercial banks and savings institutions with up to $50 billion in assets. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), there were approximately 4,790 commercial banks and savings institutions in this asset range as of December 31, 2021, and we currently support over 950 of these banks with one of our three core information processing platform and complementary products and services. Our core credit union solutions serve credit unions of all asset sizes. According to the Credit Union National Association (“CUNA”), there were more than 5,000 domestic credit unions as of December 31, 2021, and we currently support nearly 720 of these credit unions with one flagship core information processing platform and complementary products and services. Our non-core solutions serve financial services organizations of all asset sizes and charters and other diverse corporate entities. We currently support over 7,800 institutions with specialized solutions for generating additional revenue and growth, increasing security, mitigating operational risks, and controlling operating costs. The FDIC reports the number of commercial banks and savings institutions declined 18% from the beginning of calendar year 2016 to the end of calendar year 2021, due mainly to mergers. Although the number of banks declined at a 4% compound annual rate during this period, aggregate assets increased at a compound annual rate of 9.0% and totaled $23.7 trillion as of December 31, 2021. There were nine new bank charters issued in calendar year 2021, compared to six in the 2020 calendar year. Comparing calendar years 2021 to 2020, the number of mergers decreased 2%. CUNA reports the number of credit unions declined 15% from the beginning of calendar year 2016 to the end of calendar year 2021. Although the number of credit unions declined at a 3% compound annual rate during this 6 period, aggregate assets increased at a compound annual rate of 10% and totaled $2.1 trillion as of December 31, 2021. Community and mid-tier banks and credit unions are important in the communities and to the consumers they serve. Bank customers and credit union members rely on these institutions to provide personalized, relationship-based service and competitive financial products and services available through the customer’s delivery channel of choice. Institutions are recognizing that attracting and retaining customers and members in today’s highly competitive financial industry and realizing near-term and long-term performance goals are often technology dependent. Financial institutions must implement technological solutions that enable them to: • Implement e-commerce, mobile, and digital strategies that provide the convenience-driven services required in today’s financial services industry; • Maximize performance with accessible, accurate, and timely business intelligence information; • Offer the high-demand products and services needed to successfully compete with traditional competitors and non-traditional competitors created by convergence within the financial services industry; • Enhance the customer/member experience at varied points of contact; • Expand existing customer/member relationships and strengthen exit barriers by cross selling additional products and services; • Capitalize on new revenue and deposit growth opportunities; • Increase operating efficiencies and reduce operating costs; • Protect mission-critical information assets and operational infrastructure; • Protect customers/members with various security tools from fraud and related financial losses; • Maximize the day-to-day use of technology and return on technology investments; and • Ensure full regulatory compliance. JKHY’s extensive product and service offerings enable diverse financial institutions to capitalize on these business opportunities and respond to these business challenges. We strive to establish a long-term, value-added technology partnership with each customer, and to continually expand our offerings with the specific solutions our customers need to prosper in the evolving financial services industry. Mission Statement We strengthen the connections between people and their financial institutions through technology and services that reduce the barriers to financial health. Purpose Statement To empower people and communities to gain the financial freedom to move forward. Business Strategy Our fundamental business strategy is to generate organic revenue and earnings growth augmented by strategic acquisitions. We execute this strategy by: • Providing commercial banks and credit unions with core operating systems that provide excellent functionality and support on-premise and private cloud delivery environments with identical functionality. • Expanding each core customer relationship by cross-selling complementary products and services that enhance the functionality provided by our core information processing systems. • Providing non-core highly specialized core-agnostic complementary products and services to financial institutions, including institutions not utilizing a JKHY core operating system, and diverse corporate entities. • Maintaining a company-wide commitment to customer service that consistently exceeds our customers’ expectations and generates high levels of customer retention. • Capitalizing on our acquisition strategy. Acquisition Strategy We have a disciplined approach to acquisitions and have been successful in supplementing our organic growth with 34 strategic acquisitions since the end of fiscal 1999. We continue to explore acquisitions that have the potential to: • Expand our suite of complementary products and services; • Provide products and services that can be sold to both existing core and non-core customers and outside our base to new customers; and/or • Provide selective opportunities to sell outside our traditional markets in the financial services industry. 7 After 46 years in business, we have very few gaps in our product line, so it is increasingly difficult to find proven products or services that would enable our clients and prospects to better optimize their business opportunities or solve specific operational issues. In addition, we see few acquisition opportunities that would expand our market or enable our entry into adjacent markets within the financial services industry that are fairly priced or that we could assimilate into our company without material distractions. We have a solid track record of executing acquisitions from both a financial and operational standpoint, and we will continue to pursue acquisition opportunities that support our strategic direction, complement and accelerate our organic growth, and generate long-term profitable growth for our stockholders. While we seek to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities, we will continue to explore alternative ways to leverage our cash position and balance sheet to the benefit of our stockholders, such as continued investment in new products and services for our customers, repurchases of our stock, and continued payment of dividends. Our most recent acquisition was: Solutions • Our core banking solutions support commercial banks with information and transaction processing platforms that provide enterprise-wide automation. We have three functionally distinct core bank processing systems and more than 140 fully integrated complementary solutions, including business intelligence and bank management, retail and business banking, digital and mobile internet banking and electronic payment solutions, risk management and protection, and item and document imaging solutions. Our core banking solutions have state-of-the-art functional capabilities, and we can re-market the hardware required by on-premise use of each software system. Our banking solutions can be delivered on-premise or through our private cloud delivery model and are backed by a company-wide commitment to provide exceptional personal service. We are a recognized market leader, currently supporting over 950 banks with our technology platforms. • Our core credit union solutions support credit unions of all sizes with an information and transaction processing platform that provides enterprise-wide automation. Our solution includes one flagship core processing system and more than 100 fully integrated complementary solutions, including business intelligence and credit union management, member and member business services, digital and mobile internet banking and electronic payment solutions, risk management and protection, and item and document imaging solutions. Our credit union solution also has state-of-the-art functional capabilities. We also re-market the hardware required by on-premise use of the software system. Our credit union solution can be delivered on-premise or through our private cloud delivery model, and is backed by our company-wide commitment to provide exceptional personal service. We currently support nearly 720 credit union customers. • Our non-core solutions for financial institutions are specialized products and services assembled primarily through our focused diversification acquisition strategy. These core-agnostic solutions are compatible with a wide variety of information technology platforms and operating environments and offer more than 100 complementary solutions, including proven solutions for generating additional revenue and growth, increasing security and mitigating operational risks, and/or controlling operating costs. Our non-core products and services enhance the performance of financial services organizations of all asset sizes and charters, and diverse corporate entities. We have over 7,800 customers, including over 6,150 unique non-core customers. These distinct products and services can be implemented individually or as solution suites to address specific business problems or needs and enable effective responses to dynamic industry trends. We strive to develop and maintain functionally robust, integrated solutions that are supported with high service levels, regularly updating and improving those solutions using an interactive customer enhancement process; ensuring compliance with relevant regulations; updated with proven advances in technology; and consistent with JKHY’s reputation as a premium product and service provider. Core Software Systems Core software systems primarily consist of the integrated applications required to process deposit, loan, and general ledger transactions, and to maintain centralized customer/member information. Our core banking solutions consist of three software systems marketed to banks and our core credit union solution consists of one software system marketed to credit unions. These core systems are available for on-premise 8 installation at customer sites, or financial institutions can choose to leverage our private cloud environment for ongoing information processing. Core banking platforms are: • SilverLake System®, a robust system primarily designed for commercial-focused banks with assets ranging from $1 billion to $50 billion. Some progressive smaller banks and de novo (start-up) banks also select SilverLake. This system is in use by nearly 450 banks, and now automates over 9% of the domestic banks with assets less than $50 billion. • CIF 20/20®, a parameter-driven, easy-to-use system that now supports approximately 332 banks ranging from de novo institutions to those with assets of $4 billion. • Core Director®, a cost-efficient system with point-and-click operation that now supports nearly 200 banks ranging from de novo institutions to those with assets of $2 billion. Core credit union platform is: • Symitar® (formerly known as Episys®), a robust system designed specifically for credit unions. It has been implemented by nearly 720 credit unions with assets ranging from $3 million to $35 billion, and according to National Credit Union Administration ("NCUA") data, is the system implemented by more credit unions with assets exceeding $25 million than any other alternative core system. Customers electing to install our solutions on-premise license the proprietary software systems. The majority of these customers pay ongoing annual software maintenance fees. We re-market the hardware, hardware maintenance, and peripheral equipment that is required by on-premise use of our software solutions; and we perform software implementation, data conversion, training, ongoing support, and other related services. On-premise customers generally license our core software systems under a standard license agreement that provides a fully paid, nonexclusive, nontransferable right to use the software on a single computer at a single location. Customers can eliminate the significant up-front capital expenditures required by on-premise installations and the responsibility for operating information and transaction processing infrastructures by leveraging our private cloud environment for those functions. Our core private cloud services are provided through a highly resilient data center configuration across multiple physical locations. We also provide image item processing services from two host/archive sites and several key entry and balancing locations throughout the country. We print and mail customer statements for financial institutions from three regional printing and rendering centers. Customers electing to outsource their core processing typically sign contracts for seven or more years that include "per account" fees and minimum guaranteed payments during the contract period. We support the dynamic business requirements of our core bank and credit union clients with ongoing enhancements to each core system, the regular introduction of new integrated complementary products, the ongoing integration of practical new technologies, and regulatory compliance initiatives. JKHY also serves each core customer as a single point of contact, support, and accountability. Complementary Products and Services We have more than 140 complementary products and services that are targeted to our core banks and more than 100 targeted to credit union customers. Many of these are selectively sold to financial services organizations that use other core processing systems. These complementary solutions enable core bank and credit union clients to respond to evolving customer/member demands, expedite speed-to-market with competitive offerings, increase operating efficiency, address specific operational issues, and generate new revenue streams. The highly specialized solutions enable diverse financial services organizations and corporate entities to generate additional revenue and growth opportunities, increase security and mitigate operational risks, and control operating costs. JKHY regularly introduces new products and services based on demand for integrated complementary solutions from our existing core clients, and based on the growing demand among financial services organizations and corporate entities for specialized solutions capable of increasing revenue and growth opportunities, mitigating and controlling operational risks, and/or containing costs. The Company’s Industry Research department solicits customer guidance on the business solutions they need, evaluates available solutions and competitive offerings, and manages the introduction of new product offerings. JKHY’s new complementary products and services are developed internally, acquired, or provided through strategic alliances. 9 Implementation and Training Most of our core bank and credit union customers contract with us for implementation and training services in connection with their systems and additional complementary products. A complete core system implementation typically includes detailed planning, project management, data conversion, and testing. Our experienced implementation teams travel to customer facilities or work remotely with clients to help manage the implementation process and ensure that all data is transferred from the legacy system to the JKHY system. Our implementation fees are fixed or hourly based on the core system being installed. We also provide extensive initial and ongoing education to our customers. We have a comprehensive training program that supports new customers with basic training and longtime customers with continuing education. The curricula provide the ongoing training financial institutions need to maximize the use of JKHY’s core and complementary products, to optimize ongoing system enhancements, and to fully understand dynamic year-end legislative and regulatory requirements. Each basic, intermediate, and advanced course is delivered by system experts, supported by professional materials and training tools, and incorporates different educational media in a blended learning approach. The program supports distinct learning preferences with a variety of delivery channels, including classroom-based courses offered in JKHY’s regional training centers, Internet-based live instruction, eLearning courses, on-site training, and train-the-trainer programs. Support and Services We serve our customers as a single point of contact and support for the complex solutions we provide. Our comprehensive support infrastructure incorporates: • Exacting service standards; • Trained support staff available up to 24 hours a day, 365 days a year; • Assigned account managers; • Sophisticated support tools, resources, and technology; • Broad experience converting diverse banks and credit unions to our core platforms from competitive platforms; • Highly effective change management and control processes; and • A best practices methodology developed and refined through the company-wide, day-to-day experience supporting over 7,800 diverse clients. Most on-premise customers contract for annual software support services, and this represents a significant source of recurring revenue for JKHY. These support services are typically priced at approximately 20% of the respective product’s software license fee. The subsequent years' service fees generally increase as customer assets increase and as additional complementary products are purchased. Annual software support fees are typically billed during June and are paid in advance for the entire fiscal year, with proration for new product implementations that occur during the fiscal year. Hardware support fees also are usually paid in advance for entire contract periods which typically range from one to five years. Most support contracts automatically renew unless the customer or JKHY gives notice of termination at least 30 days prior to contract expiration. High levels of support are provided to our private cloud customers by the same support infrastructure utilized for on-premise customers. However, these support fees are included as part of monthly private cloud fees. JKHY regularly measures customer satisfaction using annual surveys and more frequent online surveys initiated randomly by routine support requests. We believe the results of the surveys confirm that we consistently exceed our customers’ service-related expectations. Hardware Systems Our software systems operate on a variety of hardware platforms. We have established remarketing agreements with IBM Corporation, and many other hardware providers that allow JKHY to purchase hardware and related maintenance services at a discount and resell them directly to our customers. We currently sell IBM Power Systems™; Lenovo, Dell, Hewlett Packard, and Cisco servers and workstations; Canon, Digital Check, Epson, and Panini check scanners; and other devices that complement our software solutions. Digital Products and Services Jack Henry Digital represents a category of digital products and services that are being built and integrated together into one unified platform. Our main offering is the Banno Digital Platform. It is an online and mobile banking platform that helps community and regional financial institutions strategically differentiate their digital offerings from those of megabanks and other financial technology companies. It is a complete, open digital banking platform that gives 10 community financial institutions attractive, fast, native applications for their customers and members and cloud-based, core-connected back office tools for their employees. Payment Solutions Electronic payment solutions provide our customers with the tools necessary to be at the forefront of payment innovation with secure payment processing designed to simplify complex payment processing, attract profitable retail and commercial accounts, increase operating efficiencies, comply with regulatory mandates, and proactively mitigate and manage payment-related risk. • JHA Card Processing Solutions ("CPS") supports full-service and in-house debit and credit card programs backed by a comprehensive suite of tools for fraud mitigation, digital payments, dispute management, plastics manufacturing and personalization, loyalty programs, data analytics, and terminal driving. In addition, advisory services are offered to support a variety of needs including card portfolio growth, start-up program consultation, as well as customized fraud management; all tailored to individual financial institution goals and concerns. • Enterprise Payment Solutions ("EPS") is a comprehensive payments engine. It offers an integrated suite of remote deposit capture, Automated Clearing House ("ACH"), and card transaction processing solutions, risk management tools, reporting capabilities, and more for financial institutions, businesses and FinTechs of all sizes. EPS helps its clients succeed in today’s competitive market to increase revenue, improve efficiencies, better manage compliance, and enhance customer relationships. • iPay Solutions TM provides consumers and businesses with money movement options through their financial institutions’ digital platforms including paying bills, sending money to anyone and transferring funds between their own accounts. iPay’s extensive application programming interface ("API") and hosted interfaces allow for multiple levels of integration by digital platforms and financial institutions. iPay provides financial institutions with services and tools to increase adoption, support end-users and monitor fraud. The money movement options keep the consumers and businesses engaged with the financial institution. • JHA PayCenter TM , provides our customer financial institutions with a single entry point to both Zelle and Real Time Payments ("RTP") real-time networks with plans to accommodate the Federal Reserve's FedNow in 2024, with testing to begin in 2023. PayCenter manages the certification process and mandatory updates from the networks, simplifies integration with toolkits and provides fraud monitoring. Financial institutions are able to send and receive transactions instantly 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, through our core and complementary solutions. • Payments as a Service (PaaS) ties together and further enhances the complete array of electronic payments functionality with a front end Payments Developers Experience Portal and back end data analytics. Research and Development We invest significant resources in ongoing research and development to develop new software solutions and services and enhance existing solutions with additional functionality and features required to ensure regulatory compliance. Our core and complementary systems are enhanced a minimum of once each year. Product-specific enhancements are largely customer-driven with recommended enhancements formally gathered through focus groups, change control boards, strategic initiatives meetings, annual user group meetings, and ongoing customer contact. We also continually evaluate and implement process improvements that expedite the delivery of new products and enhancements to our customers and reduce related costs. Research and development expenses for fiscal 2022, 2021, and 2020 were $121.4 million, $109.0 million, and $110.0 million, respectively. We recorded capitalized software in fiscal 2022, 2021, and 2020 of $148.2 million, $128.3 million, and $117.3 million, respectively. Sales and Marketing JKHY serves established, well-defined markets that provide ongoing sales and cross-sales opportunities. The marketing and sales initiatives within the core business lines are primarily focused on identifying banks and credit unions evaluating alternative core information and transaction processing solutions. Our non-core specialized core-agnostic niche solutions are sold to complement existing technology platforms to domestic financial services organizations of all asset sizes and charters. Sales executives are responsible for the activities required to earn new customers in assigned territories, and regional account executives are responsible for nurturing customer relationships and cross selling additional products and services. Our sales professionals receive base salaries and performance-based commission compensation. Sales support staff provide a variety of services, including product and service demonstrations, responses to prospect-issued requests-for-proposals, and proposal and contract generation. Our marketing 11 department supports sales with lead generation and brand-building activities, including participation in state-specific, regional, and national trade shows; print and online advertising; telemarketing; customer/client newsletters; ongoing promotional campaigns; and media relations. JKHY also hosts annual national education conferences which provide opportunities to network with existing clients and demonstrate new products and services. JKHY has sold select products and services outside the United States, primarily in Latin America and the Caribbean and Canada. International sales accounted for less than 1% of JKHY’s total revenue in each of fiscal 2022, 2021, and 2020. Competition The market for companies providing technology solutions to financial services organizations is competitive, and we expect that competition from both existing competitors and companies entering our existing or future markets will remain strong. Some of JKHY’s current competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, and greater financial resources. The principal competitive factors affecting the market for technology solutions include product/service functionality, price, operating flexibility and ease-of-use, customer support, and existing customer references. For more than a decade there has been significant consolidation among providers of products and services designed for financial institutions, and this consolidation is expected to continue in the future. Our core solutions compete with large vendors that provide information and transaction processing solutions to banks and credit unions, including Fidelity National Information Services, Inc.; Fiserv, Inc.; and Finastra. Our non-core specialized solutions compete with an array of disparate vendors that provide niche solutions to financial services organizations and corporate entities. Intellectual Property, Patents, and Trademarks Although we believe our success depends upon our technical expertise more than our proprietary rights, our future success and ability to compete depend in part upon our proprietary technology. We have registered or filed applications for our primary trademarks. Most of our technology is not patented. Instead, we rely on a combination of contractual rights, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets to establish and protect our proprietary technology. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, resellers, customers, and potential customers. Access to and distribution of our Company’s source code is restricted, and the disclosure and use of other proprietary information is further limited. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties can attempt to copy or otherwise obtain, or use our products or technology. We cannot be certain that the steps taken in this regard will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Regulatory Compliance JKHY maintains a corporate commitment to address compliance issues and implement requirements imposed by federal regulators prior to the effective date of such requirements when adequate prior notice is given. JKHY’s compliance program is coordinated by a team of compliance analysts and auditors that possess extensive regulatory agency and financial institution experience, and a thorough working knowledge of JKHY and our solutions. These compliance professionals leverage multiple channels to remain informed about potential and recently enacted regulatory requirements, including regular discussions on emerging topics with the Federal Banking Agencies (“FBA”) examination team and training sessions sponsored by various professional associations. JKHY has a process to inform internal stakeholders of new and revised regulatory requirements. Upcoming regulatory changes also are presented to the Company’s development teams through monthly regulatory compliance meetings and the necessary product changes are included in the ongoing product development cycle. JKHY publishes newsletters to keep our customers informed of regulatory changes that could impact their operations. Periodically, customer advisory groups are assembled to discuss significant regulatory changes. Internal audits of our systems, networks, operations, business recovery plans, and applications are conducted and specialized outside firms are periodically engaged to perform testing and validation of our systems, processes, plans and security. The FBA conducts annual reviews throughout the Company and issues a Report of Examination. The Board of Directors provides oversight of these activities through the Risk and Compliance Committee and the Audit Committee. Government Regulation The financial services industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation. All financial institutions are subject to substantial regulatory oversight and supervision. Our products and services must comply with the extensive and evolving regulatory requirements applicable to our customers, including but not limited to those mandated by federal truth-in-lending and truth-in-savings rules, the Privacy of Consumer Financial 12 Information regulations, usury laws, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA Patriot Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Community Reinvestment Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The compliance of JKHY’s products and services with these requirements depends on a variety of factors, including the parameters set through the interactive design, the classification of customers, and the manner in which the customer utilizes the products and services. Our customers are contractually responsible for assessing and determining what is required of them under these regulations and then we provide solutions that assist them in meeting their regulatory needs through our products and services. We cannot predict the impact these regulations, any future amendments to these regulations or any newly implemented regulations will have on our business in the future. JKHY is not chartered by the Office of the Comptroller of Currency ("OCC"), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the FDIC, the NCUA or other federal or state agencies that regulate or supervise depository institutions. However, operating as a service provider to financial institutions, JKHY’s operations are governed by the same regulatory requirements as those imposed on financial institutions, and subject to periodic reviews by FBA regulators who have broad supervisory authority to remedy any shortcomings identified in such reviews. JKHY provides private cloud services through JHA OutLink Processing Services™ for banks and EASE Processing Services™ for credit unions. JKHY provides data centers and electronic transaction processing through JHA Card Processing Solutions™, internet banking through NetTeller® and Banno TM online solutions, bill payment through iPay, network security monitoring and Hosted Network Solutions ("HNS") through our Gladiator® unit, cloud services through Hosted Partner Services and Enterprise Integration Services, and business recovery services through Centurion Disaster Recovery ® . The private cloud services provided by JKHY are subject to examination by FBA regulators under the Bank Service Company Act. These examinations cover a wide variety of subjects, including system development, functionality, reliability, and security, as well as disaster preparedness and business recovery planning. Our private cloud services are also subject to examination by state banking authorities on occasion. Information and Cybersecurity In our increasingly interconnected environment, information is inherently exposed to a growing number of risks, threats, and vulnerabilities. As a provider of products and services to financial institutions, we take extreme caution and due care in processing and storing sensitive, personally identifiable information securely. We prioritize protecting our associates, clients, and their private data from the ever-evolving cyber threat environment and ensuring the resiliency of such information. We have an established information and cybersecurity program maintained by a team of diverse, highly skilled cybersecurity professionals, as well as a portfolio of investments in modern technology including artificial intelligence and machine learning. The program incorporates industry-standard frameworks, policies, and practices designed to protect the confidentiality and privacy of JKHY’s and our clients’ information. Additionally, we maintain insurance that includes cybersecurity coverage. In support of the program, our systems and services undergo regular reviews performed by the same regulatory agencies that review financial institutions: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB"), Federal Reserve Board ("FRB"), FDIC, NCUA, and the OCC, among others. Reviews such as those by the Federal Banking agencies (a regulatory group comprised of the FDIC, FRB, and the OCC) assess and identify security gaps or flaws in controls and monitor the effectiveness of our security program. Critical services provided to our clients are subject to annual System and Organization Controls ("SOC") reviews by independent auditors. SOC reports are made available to clients via the client communications portal. Information and cybersecurity leadership reports to the Risk and Compliance Board committee and the full Board of Directors quarterly, on information security and cybersecurity matters. Human Capital Our Employees As of June 30, 2022, we had 6,847 full-time employees. Our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement and there have been no labor-related work stoppages. Talent Attraction and Engagement Our people and culture strategy focuses on attracting, engaging, and retaining qualified, diverse, and innovative talent at all levels of the Company. We are a committed equal opportunity employer and all qualified candidates receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, sex, 13 sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, pregnancy, genetic information, or other characteristics protected by applicable law. Beyond nondiscrimination compliance, we are committed to fostering a respectful, diverse, and inclusive workplace in which all individuals are treated with respect and dignity. We continue to concentrate efforts on diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging and have hired employees in the human resources function to focus on this important area. We seek nontraditional talent streams to help identify candidates from underrepresented groups, including through our internship program and our newly launched apprenticeship program. Our internship program focuses on attracting college and university students to paid work in JKHY departments related to their studies, while our apprenticeship program offers paid training and work for candidates (either students or non-students) with little to no traditional experience in the field, such as learning computer coding. Both our internship program and our apprenticeship program can lead to full-time employment. We have sought to expand our sources for candidates for these programs, including by increasing our recruiting efforts at historically black colleges and universities and through relationships with non-profits that promote employment opportunities for veterans. We continue to engage our Business Innovation Groups (“BIGs”) to develop attraction and retention suggestions and practices that advance a diverse, equitable, and inclusive culture. Our BIGs are company-sponsored groups open to all employees. As of June 30, 2022, we had approximately 1,700 unique associates participating in six active BIGs, with five focused on inclusion for specific communities — women, people of color, remote associates, LGBTQ+, and veterans — and one focused on environmental and sustainability topics. While BIGs allow associates to connect and support each other, they also function to assist us in addressing bona fide business problems through input and suggestions. For example, these groups work with executive leadership to actively improve our talent attraction processes for prospective employees. They also provide education, training, and conversation opportunities to all employees to advance diversity, inclusion, understanding, and innovation throughout the Company. We seek to actively listen to our employees throughout the year using a defined and continual listening strategy designed to gather regular feedback on well-being, engagement, leadership, ethics, culture and values, and other top of mind topics. These surveys allow us to respond to employee concerns, benefit from employee perspectives, and better design and develop processes to support our Company culture. Employees can learn about changes through our quarterly employee update videos or all-employee town hall meetings delivered by senior management. Training and Development Our success depends not only on attracting and retaining talented employees, but also in developing our current employees and providing new opportunities for their growth. We offer our employees numerous live and on-demand training programs and resources to help them build knowledge and improve skills. These trainings include mandatory programs, such as security awareness, as well as recommended but optional programs in areas including leadership development; technical skills; and diversity, equity, and inclusion. Jack Tracks, a three-week virtual development event, offers employees a large selection of curated topics such as future readiness, technology trends, and education on Company solutions. Recognizing the importance of mentoring in career development, we host an internal mentorship marketplace, which allows prospective mentors and mentees to connect and self-initiate a mentoring relationship. We also make career mobility and personal development plan resources available to all employees. In fiscal 2022, we strengthened our leadership capacity by providing training on effective coaching practices to all leaders and offered a virtual summit for the Company’s most senior leaders focused on alignment to top priority business initiatives. We recognize and value the contribution of our employees who develop, improve, and support our technology solutions and we provide additional development opportunities for them to advance their technical expertise. This includes access to on-demand technical training libraries, certification programs, and classes facilitated by external experts. Wellness and Safety JKHY emphasizes the safety and well-being of our employees as a top priority. We define wellness comprehensively and include mental, physical, emotional, financial, psychological, and environmental considerations. JKHY offers a competitive compensation and benefits package and supports dedicated campaigns that communicate directly to employees about financial wellness, mental health, healthful nutrition and exercise, and other wellness topics. Employee well-being is further supported through policies such as remote work, paid parental leave, military service leave, educational assistance, and bereavement leave policies. For more information on our COVID-19 response, see “COVID-19 Impact and Response” above. 14 Available Information JKHY’s Website is easily accessible to the public at jackhenry.com . The “Investors" portion of the Website provides key corporate governance documents, the code of conduct, an archive of press releases, and other relevant Company information. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and other filings and amendments thereto that are made with the SEC also are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practical after these reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at https://www.sec.gov . ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company's business and the results of its operations are affected by numerous factors and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some of the important risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those expected or desired. Business and Operating Risks Data security breaches, failures or other incidents could damage our reputation and business. Our business relies upon receiving, processing, storing and transmitting sensitive information relating to our operations, employees, and customers. If we fail to maintain a sufficient digital security infrastructure, address security vulnerabilities and new threats, or deploy adequate technologies to secure our systems against attack, we may be subject to security breaches that compromise confidential information, adversely affect our ability to operate our business, damage our reputation and business, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and expose us to liability. We rely on industry-standard encryption, network, and Internet security systems, most of which we license from third parties, to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data and to prevent unauthorized access to our computer networks, systems, and data. A security failure by one of these third parties could expose our information systems to interruption of operations and security vulnerabilities. We also use third-party vendors to store and process data for us and they face similar risks. Our services and infrastructure are increasingly reliant on the Internet. Computer networks and the Internet are vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other disruptive problems such as denial of service attacks or other cyber-attacks carried out by cyber criminals or state-sponsored actors. Other potential attacks include attempts to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information or destroy data, often through the introduction of computer viruses, ransomware or malware, cyber-attacks, and other means, which are constantly evolving and difficult to detect. Although none of these types of attacks have had a material effect on our business or operations to date, we anticipate that attempts to attack our systems, services, and infrastructure, and those of our customers and vendors, may grow in frequency and sophistication. Those same parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, vendors, or other users of our systems through phishing schemes or other methods to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. We are also subject to the risk that our employees may intercept and transmit unauthorized confidential or proprietary information or that employee corporate-owned computers are stolen or customer data media is lost in shipment. An interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential, or proprietary information being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action, and reputational harm, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Under state, federal, and foreign laws requiring consumer notification of security breaches, the costs to remediate security breaches can be substantial. Although we believe our security controls and infrastructure are adequate to protect our systems and data, we cannot be certain that these efforts will be sufficient to combat all current and future technological risks and threats. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments may render our security measures inadequate. Security risks may result in liability to our customers or other third parties, damage to our reputation, and may deter financial institutions from purchasing our products. The significant amount of capital and other resources we currently expend to protect against the threat of security breaches may prove insufficient to prevent a breach. We cannot ensure that any limitation-of-liability provisions in our customer and user agreements, contracts with third-party vendors, or other contracts are sufficient to protect us from liabilities or damages with respect to claims relating to a security breach or similar matters. The insurance coverage we maintain to address data security risks may be insufficient to cover all types of claims or losses that may arise, and there is no assurance that such insurance coverage will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In the event of a security breach, we may need to spend substantial additional capital and resources alleviating problems caused by such breach. Addressing security problems may result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service to users, any of which could harm our business. 15 Failure to maintain sufficient technological infrastructure or an operational failure in our outsourcing facilities could expose us to damage claims, increase regulatory scrutiny and cause us to lose customers. Our products and services require substantial investments in technological infrastructure, and we have experienced significant growth in the number of users, transactions, and data that our technological infrastructure supports. If we fail to adequately invest in and support our technological infrastructure and processing capacity, we may not be able to support our customers’ processing needs and may be more susceptible to interruptions and delays in services. Damage or destruction that interrupts our outsourcing operations could cause delays and failures in customer processing which could hurt our relationship with customers, damage our reputation, expose us to damage claims, and cause us to incur substantial additional expense to relocate operations and repair or replace damaged equipment. Events that could cause operational failures include, but are not limited to, hardware and software defects, breakdowns or malfunctions, cybersecurity incidents, human error, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. Our facilities are also subject to physical risks related to natural disasters or severe weather events, such as tornados, flooding, hurricanes, and heat waves. Climate change may increase the likelihood and severity of such events. Our back-up systems and procedures may prove insufficient or otherwise fail to prevent disruption, such as a prolonged interruption of our transaction processing services. If an interruption extends for more than several hours, we may experience data loss or a reduction in revenues by reason of such interruption. Any significant interruption of service could reduce revenue, have a negative impact on our reputation, result in damage claims, lead our present and potential customers to choose other service providers, and lead to increased regulatory scrutiny of the critical services we provide to financial institutions, with resulting increases in compliance burdens and costs. Implementing modifications and upgrades to our technological infrastructure subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with changing systems, policies, procedures, and monitoring tools. Failures associated with payment transactions could result in financial loss. The volume and dollar amount of payment transactions that we process is significant and continues to grow. We direct the settlement of funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. Transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, Automated Clearing House (“ACH”) payments, real-time payments through faster payment networks, and check clearing that support consumers, financial institutions, and other businesses. If the continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised in connection with payments transactions, we could suffer financial as well as reputational loss. In addition, we rely on various third parties to process transactions and provide services in support of the processing of transactions and funds settlement for certain of our products and services that we cannot provide ourselves. If we are unable to obtain such services in the future or if the price of such services becomes unsustainable, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may issue short-term credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement process. A default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. Failures of third-party service providers we rely upon could lead to financial loss. We rely on third party service providers to support key portions of our operations. We also rely on third party service providers to provide part or all of certain services we deliver to customers. As we continue to move more computing, storage, and processing services out of our data centers and facilities and into third-party hosting environments, our reliance on these providers and their systems will increase. While we have selected these third-party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. A failure of these services by a third party could have a material impact upon our delivery of services to our customers. Such a failure could lead to damage claims, loss of customers, and reputational harm, depending on the duration and severity of the failure. Third parties perform significant operational services on our behalf. These third-party vendors are subject to similar risks as us including, but not limited to, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, hardware and software defects, breakdowns or malfunctions, cybersecurity incidents, human error, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, computer viruses or other malware, natural disasters or severe weather events, or other events. One or more of our vendors may experience a cybersecurity event or operational disruption and, if any such event does occur, it may not be adequately addressed, either operationally or financially, by the third-party vendor. Certain of our vendors may have limited indemnification obligations or may not have the financial capacity to satisfy their indemnification obligations. If a critical vendor is unable to meet our needs in a timely manner or if the services or products provided by such a vendor are terminated or otherwise delayed and if we are not able to develop alternative sources for these services and products quickly and cost-effectively, our customers could be negatively impacted, and it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 16 Competition may result in decreased demand or require price reductions or other concessions to customers, which could result in lower margins and reduce income. We vigorously compete with a variety of software vendors and service providers in all of our major product lines. We compete on the basis of product quality, reliability, performance, ease of use, quality of support and services, integration with other products, and pricing. Some of our competitors may have advantages over us due to their size, product lines, greater marketing resources, or exclusive intellectual property rights. New competitors regularly appear with new products, services, and technology for financial institutions. If competitors offer more favorable pricing, payment or other contractual terms, warranties, or functionality, or otherwise attract our customers or prevent us from capturing new customers we may need to lower prices or offer other terms that negatively impact our results of operations in order to successfully compete. Failure to achieve favorable renewals of service contracts could negatively affect our business. Our contracts with our customers for outsourced data processing and electronic payment transaction processing services generally run for a period of seven or more years. We will continue to experience a significant number of these contracts coming up for renewal each year. Renewal time presents our customers with the opportunity to consider other providers or to renegotiate their contracts with us, including reducing the services we provide or negotiating the prices paid for our services. If we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates upon favorable terms, revenues and profit margins will suffer. We may experience increased costs for services from our third-party vendors due to inflation or other cost expansion, but because our customer contracts typically have longer terms than our vendor contracts, our ability to pass on those higher costs to customers may be limited. If inflation or costs outpace our contractual ability to adjust pricing during the contractual terms of our customer contracts, our revenues and profit margins could be negatively impacted. If we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology and the markets we serve, we could lose existing customers and be unable to attract new business. The markets for our products and services are characterized by changing customer and regulatory requirements and rapid technological changes. These factors and new product introductions by our existing competitors or by new market entrants could reduce the demand for our existing products and services and we may be required to develop or acquire new products and services. Our future success is dependent on our ability to enhance our existing products and services in a timely manner and to develop or acquire new products and services. If we are unable to develop or acquire new products and services as planned, or if we fail to sell our new or enhanced products and services, we may incur unanticipated expenses or fail to achieve anticipated revenues, as well as lose prospective sales. Software defects or problems with installations may harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. Our software products are complex and may contain undetected defects, especially in connection with newly released products and software updates. Software defects may cause interruptions or delays to our services as we attempt to correct the problem. We may also experience difficulties in installing or integrating our products on systems used by our customers. Defects in our software, installation problems or delays or other difficulties could result in negative publicity, loss of revenues, loss of competitive position or claims against us by customers. In addition, we rely on technologies and software supplied by third parties that may also contain undetected errors or defects that could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. Expansion of services to non-traditional customers could expose us to new risks. We have expanded our services to business lines that are marketed outside our traditional, regulated, and litigation-averse base of financial institution customers. These non-regulated customers may entail greater operational, credit, and litigation risks than we have faced before and could result in increases in bad debts and litigation costs. Regulatory and Compliance Risks The software and services we provide to our customers are subject to government regulation that could hinder the development of our business, increase costs, or impose constraints on the way we conduct our operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive and complex federal and state regulation. As a supplier of software and services to financial institutions, portions of our operations are examined by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and the National Credit Union Association, among other regulatory agencies. These agencies regulate services we provide and the way we operate, and we are required to comply with a broad range of applicable federal and state laws and regulations. If we, or third parties with whom we contract or partner, fail to comply with applicable regulations or guidelines, we could be subject to regulatory actions and suffer harm to our customer relationships and reputation. Such failures could require significant expenditures to correct and could negatively affect our ability to retain customers and obtain new customers. In addition, existing laws, regulations, and policies could be amended or interpreted differently by regulators in a manner that imposes additional costs and has a negative impact on our existing operations or that limits our future 17 growth or expansion. New regulations could require additional programming or other costly changes in our processes or personnel. Our customers are also regulated entities, and actions by regulatory authorities could influence both the decisions they make concerning the purchase of data processing and other services and the timing and implementation of these decisions. We will be required to apply substantial research and development and other corporate resources to adapt our products to this evolving, complex, and often unpredictable regulatory environment. Our failure to provide compliant solutions could result in significant fines or consumer liability on our customers, for which we may bear ultimate liability. Compliance with new and existing privacy laws, regulations, and rules may adversely impact our expenses, development, and strategy. We are subject to complex laws, rules, and regulations related to data privacy and cybersecurity. If we fail to comply with such requirements, we could be subject to reputational harm, regulatory enforcement, and litigation. The use, confidentiality, and security of private customer information is under increased scrutiny. Regulatory agencies, Congress, and state legislatures are considering numerous regulatory and statutory proposals to protect the interests of consumers and to require compliance with standards and policies that have not been defined. This includes rules enacted by the New York Department of Financial Services that require covered financial institutions to have a cybersecurity program along with other compliance requirements and the California Consumer Privacy Act. The unique data protection regulations issued by multiple agencies have created a fragmented series of requirements that makes it increasingly complex to comply with all the mandates in an efficient manner and may increase costs to deliver affected products and services as those requirements are established. Failure to comply or readily address compliance and regulatory rule changes made by payment card networks could adversely affect our business. We are subject to card association and network compliance rules governing the payment networks we serve, including Visa, MasterCard, Zelle, and The Clearing House’s RTP network, and all rules governing the Payment Card Data Security Standards. If we fail to comply with these rules and standards, we could be fined or our certifications could be suspended or terminated, which could limit our ability to service our customers and result in reductions in revenues and increased costs of operations. Changes made by the networks, even when complied with, may result in reduction in revenues and increased costs of operations. Economic Conditions Risks A widespread public health crisis could adversely affect our results of operations. The widespread outbreak of a communicable illness or disease, such as the COVID-19 outbreak, or other public health crises, including government mandates in response to such events, can result in significant economic disruptions and uncertainties and could adversely affect our business, results of operation, and financial condition. The conditions caused by such events may affect the rate of spending by our customers and their ability to pay for our products and services, delay prospective customers’ purchasing decisions, interfere with our employees’ ability to support our business function, disrupt the ability of third-party providers we rely upon to deliver services, adversely impact our ability to provide on-site services or installations to our customers, or reduce the number of transactions we process, all of which could adversely affect our results of operation and financial position. We are unable to accurately predict the impact of such events on our business due to a number of uncertainties, including the duration, severity, geographic reach and governmental responses to such events, the impact on our customers’ and vendors' operations, and our ability to provide products and services, including the impact of our employees working remotely. If we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of such events effectively, our business will be harmed. Our business may be adversely impacted by general U.S. and global market and economic conditions or specific conditions in the financial services industry. We derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. If the general economic environment worsens, or if conditions or regulatory requirements within the financial services industry change, such as if financial institutions are required to increase reserve amounts, customers may be less willing or able to pay the cost of our products and services, and we could face a reduction in demand from current and potential clients for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, a growing portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees, which depend heavily on levels of consumer and business spending. Deterioration in general economic conditions could negatively impact consumer confidence and spending, resulting in reduced transaction volumes and our related revenues. Consolidation and failures of financial institutions will continue to reduce the number of our customers and potential customers. Our primary market consists of approximately 4,790 commercial and savings banks and more than 5,000 credit unions. The number of commercial banks and credit unions in the United States has experienced a steady decrease over recent decades due to mergers and acquisitions and financial failures and we expect this trend to continue as more consolidation occurs. Such events may reduce the number of our current and potential customers, which could negatively impact our results of operations. 18 Acquisition Risks Our growth may be affected if we are unable to find or complete suitable acquisitions. We have augmented the growth of our business with a number of acquisitions and we plan to continue to acquire appropriate businesses, products, and services. This strategy depends on our ability to identify, negotiate and finance suitable acquisitions. Merger and acquisition activity in our industry has affected the availability and pricing of such acquisitions. If we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. Acquisitions subject us to risks and may be costly and difficult to integrate. On August 5, 2022, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger to acquire 100% of the equity interests of Payrailz, LLC, which offers digital payment capabilities, including real-time person-to-person ("P2P") payments. The acquisition is anticipated to close on August 31, 2022, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. Acquisitions, including the Payrailz acquisition, are difficult to evaluate, and our due diligence may not identify all potential liabilities or valuation issues. We may also be subject to risks related to cybersecurity incidents or vulnerabilities of the acquired company and the acquired systems. We may not be able to successfully integrate Payrailz or any other acquired companies. We may encounter problems with the integration of new businesses, including: financial control and computer system compatibility; unanticipated costs and liabilities; unanticipated quality or customer problems with acquired products or services; differing regulatory and industry standards; diversion of management's attention; adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; loss of key employees; and significant depreciation and amortization expenses related to acquired assets. To finance the Payrailz acquisition or other future acquisitions, we may have to increase our borrowing or sell equity or debt securities to the public. If we fail to integrate our acquisitions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Failed acquisitions could also produce material and unpredictable impairment charges as we review our acquired assets. Intellectual Property Risks If others claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights, we could be liable for significant damages or could be required to change our processes. We have agreed to indemnify many of our customers against claims that our products and services infringe on the proprietary rights of others. We also use certain open source software in our products, which may subject us to suits by persons claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Infringement claims have been and will in the future be asserted with regard to our software solutions and services. Such claims, whether with or without merit, are time-consuming, may result in costly litigation and may not be resolved on terms favorable to us. If our defense of such claims is not successful, we could be forced to pay damages or could be subject to injunctions that would cause us to cease making or selling certain applications or force us to redesign applications. Our failure to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may adversely affect our competitive position. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon protecting our proprietary systems and technology. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or access systems or technology that we consider proprietary. We actively take steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, including entering into agreements with users of our services for that purpose and maintaining security measures. However, these steps may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult and misappropriation or litigation relating to such matters could have a material negative effect on our results of operation. General Risk Factors A material weakness in our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on us. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to mitigate risk of fraud. If material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations or financial condition, restrict our ability to access the capital markets, require us to expend significant resources to correct the weaknesses or deficiencies, subject us to fines, penalties or judgments, harm our reputation or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence. 19 The loss of key employees and difficulties in hiring and retaining employees could adversely affect our business. We depend on the contributions and abilities of our senior management and other key employees. Our Company has grown significantly in recent years and our management remains concentrated in a small number of highly qualified individuals. If we lose one or more of our key employees, we could suffer a loss of managerial experience, and management resources would have to be diverted from other activities to compensate for this loss. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. Further, we are facing an increasingly competitive market for hiring and retaining skilled employees, which is exacerbated by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and increased acceptance of hiring remote working employees by our competitors and other companies. Difficulties in hiring and retaining skilled employees may restrict our ability to adequately support our business needs and/or result in increased personnel costs. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary to maintain the Company’s strategic direction. The impairment of a significant portion of our goodwill and intangible assets would adversely affect our results of operations. Our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent a significant portion of our total assets at June 30, 2022. On an annual basis, and whenever circumstances require, we review our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment. If the carrying value of a material asset is determined to be impaired, it will be written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of our goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our operating results. An increase in interest rates could increase our borrowing costs. Although our debt borrowing levels have historically been low, we may require additional or increased borrowings in the future under existing or new debt facilities to support operations, finance acquisitions, or fund stock repurchases. Our current revolving credit facility bears interest at a variable rate. Increases in interest rates on variable-rate debt would increase our interest expense, which could negatively impact our results of operations.