PPL, PPL
Energy Supply and PPL Electric face various risks associated with their
businesses. While we have identified below the risks we currently
consider material, these risks are not the only risks that we
face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently
deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our
businesses, financial condition, cash flows or results of operations could be
materially adversely affected by any of these risks. In addition,
this report also contains forward-looking and other statements about our
businesses that are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. See
"Forward-Looking Information," "Item 1. Business," "Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and
Note 14 to the Financial Statements for more information concerning the risks
described below and for other risks, uncertainties and factors that could impact
our businesses and financial results.

As used
in this Item 1A., the terms "we," "our" and "us" generally refer to PPL and its
consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole, or to PPL Energy Supply and its
consolidated subsidiaries taken as a whole within the Supply and International
Delivery segment discussions, or PPL Electric and its consolidated subsidiaries
taken as a whole within the Pennsylvania Delivery segment
discussion.

Risks
Related to Supply Segment

(
PPL and PPL Energy
Supply
)

We
are exposed to operational, price and credit risks associated with selling and
marketing products in the wholesale electricity markets.

We
purchase and sell electricity in wholesale markets under market-based tariffs
authorized by the FERC throughout the U.S. and also enter into short-term
agreements to market available electricity and capacity from our generation
assets with the expectation of profiting from market price
fluctuations. If we are unable to deliver firm capacity and
electricity under these agreements, we could be required to pay
damages. These damages would generally be based on the difference
between the market price to acquire replacement capacity or electricity and the
contract price of any undelivered capacity or electricity. Depending
on price volatility in the wholesale electricity markets, such damages could be
significant. Extreme weather conditions, unplanned generation
facility outages, environmental compliance costs, transmission disruptions, and
other factors could affect our ability to meet our obligations, or cause
significant increases in the market price of replacement capacity and
electricity.

 

Our power
agreements typically include provisions requiring us to post collateral for the
benefit of our counterparties if the market price of energy varies from the
contract prices in excess of certain pre-determined amounts. At
December 31, 2009, we had posted $242 million of collateral, in the form of
letters of credit, under these contracts. At December 31, 2009,
we maintained $4.1 billion of liquidity facilities to provide for potential
additional collateral obligations. We currently believe that we have
sufficient credit to fulfill our potential collateral obligations under these
power contracts. Our obligation to post collateral could exceed the
amount of our facilities or our ability to increase our facilities could be
limited by financial market or other factors.

We also
face credit risk that parties with whom we contract will default in their
performance, in which case we may have to sell our electricity into a
lower-priced market or make purchases in a higher-priced market than existed at
the time of contract. Whenever feasible, we attempt to mitigate these
risks by various means, including agreements that require our counterparties to
post collateral for our benefit if the market price of energy varies from the
contract price in excess of certain pre-determined amounts. However,
there can be no assurance that we will avoid counterparty nonperformance, which
could adversely impact our ability to perform our obligations to other parties,
which could in turn subject us to claims for damages.

Adverse
changes in commodity prices and related costs may decrease our future energy
margins, which could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows.

Our
energy margins, or the amount by which our revenues from the sale of power
exceed our costs to supply power, are impacted by changes in market prices for
electricity, fuel, fuel transportation, emission allowances, RECs, electricity
transmission and related congestion charges and other costs. Unlike
most commodities, the limited ability to store electric power requires that it
must be consumed at the time of production. As a result, wholesale
market prices for electricity may fluctuate substantially over relatively short
periods of time and can be unpredictable. Among the factors that
influence such prices are:

·

demand
 for electricity and supplies of electricity available from current or new
 generation resources;

·

variable
 production costs, primarily fuel (and the associated fuel transportation
 costs) and emission allowance expense for the generation resources used to
 meet the demand for electricity;

·

transmission
 capacity and service into, or out of, markets served;

·

changes
 in the regulatory framework for wholesale power
markets;

·

liquidity
 in the wholesale electricity market, as well as general credit worthiness
 of key participants in the market; and

·

weather
 and economic conditions impacting demand for electricity or the facilities
 necessary to deliver electricity.

See
Exhibit 99(a) for more information concerning the market fluctuations in
wholesale energy, fuel and emission allowance prices over the past five
years. The volatility of these business factors has increased
significantly with the current economic downturn.

Our
risk management policy and programs relating to electricity and fuel prices,
interest rates, foreign currency and counterparties may not work as planned, and
we may suffer economic losses despite such programs.

We
actively manage the market risk inherent in our generation energy marketing
activities, as well as our debt, foreign currency and counterparty credit
positions. We have implemented procedures to monitor compliance with
our risk management policy and programs, including independent validation of
transaction and market prices, verification of risk and transaction limits,
portfolio stress test, sensitivity analyses and daily portfolio reporting of
various risk management metrics. Nonetheless, our risk management
programs may not work as planned. For example, actual electricity and
fuel prices may be significantly different or more volatile than the historical
trends and assumptions upon which we based our risk management
calculations. Additionally, unforeseen market disruptions could
decrease market depth and liquidity, negatively impacting our ability to enter
into new transactions. We enter into financial contracts to hedge
commodity basis risk, and as a result are exposed to the risk that the
correlation between delivery points could change with actual physical
delivery. Similarly, interest rates or foreign currency exchange
rates could change in significant ways that our risk management procedures were
not designed to address. As a result, we cannot always predict the
impact that our risk management decisions may have on us if actual events result
in greater losses or costs than our risk models predict or greater volatility in
our earnings and financial position.

In
addition, our trading, marketing and hedging activities are exposed to
counterparty credit risk and market liquidity risk. We have adopted a
credit risk management policy and program to evaluate counterparty credit
risk. However, if counterparties fail to perform, the risk of which
has increased due to the economic downturn, we may be forced to enter into
alternative arrangements at then-current market prices. In that
event, our financial results are likely to be adversely affected.

We
do not always hedge against risks associated with electricity and fuel price
volatility.

We
attempt to mitigate risks associated with satisfying our contractual electricity
sales obligations by either reserving generation capacity to deliver electricity
or purchasing the necessary financial or physical products and services through
competitive markets to satisfy our net firm sales contracts. We also
routinely enter into contracts, such as fuel and electricity purchase and sale
commitments, to hedge our exposure to fuel requirements and other
electricity-related commodities. However, based on economic and other
considerations, we may not hedge the entire exposure of our operations from
commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against
commodity price volatility, our results of operations and financial position may
be adversely affected.

We
face intense competition in our energy supply business, which may adversely
affect our ability to operate profitably.

Unlike
our regulated delivery businesses, our energy supply business is dependent on
our ability to operate in a competitive environment and is not assured of any
rate of return on capital investments through a predetermined rate
structure. Competition is impacted by electricity and fuel prices,
new market entrants, construction by others of generating assets and
transmission capacity, technological advances in power generation, the actions
of environmental and other regulatory authorities and other
factors. These competitive factors may negatively impact our ability
to sell electricity and related products and services, as well as the prices
that we may charge for such products and services, which could adversely affect
our results of operations and our ability to grow our business.

We sell
our available energy and capacity into the competitive wholesale markets through
contracts with various durations. Competition in the wholesale power
markets occurs principally on the basis of the price of products and, to a
lesser extent, on the basis of reliability and availability. We
believe that the commencement of commercial operation of new electric facilities
in the regional markets where we own or control generation capacity and the
evolution of demand side management resources will continue to increase the
competitiveness of the wholesale electricity market in those regions, which
could have a material adverse effect on the prices we receive for
electricity.

We also
face competition in the wholesale markets for electricity capacity and ancillary
services. We primarily compete with other electricity suppliers based
on our ability to aggregate supplies at competitive prices from different
sources and to efficiently utilize transportation from third-party pipelines and
transmission from electric utilities and ISOs. We also compete
against other energy marketers on the basis of relative financial condition and
access to credit sources, and our competitors may have greater financial
resources than we have.

Competitors
in the wholesale power markets in which PPL Generation subsidiaries and PPL
EnergyPlus operate include regulated utilities, industrial companies,
non-utility generators and unregulated subsidiaries of regulated
utilities. In the past, PUHCA significantly restricted mergers and
acquisitions and other investments in the electric utility
sector. Entirely new competitors, including financial institutions,
have entered the energy markets as a result of the repeal of
PUHCA. The repeal of PUHCA also may lead to consolidation in our
industry, resulting in competitors with significantly greater financial
resources than we have.

Disruptions
in our fuel supplies could occur, which could adversely affect our ability to
operate our generation facilities.

We
purchase fuel from a number of suppliers. Disruption in the delivery
of fuel and other products consumed during the production of electricity (such
as lime, limestone and other chemicals), including disruptions as a result of
weather, transportation difficulties, global demand and supply dynamics, labor
relations, environmental regulations or the financial viability of our fuel
suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to operate our facilities, which
could result in lower sales and/or higher costs and thereby adversely affect our
results of operations.

Despite
federal and state deregulation initiatives, our supply business is still subject
to extensive regulation, which may increase our costs, reduce our revenues, or
prevent or delay operation of our facilities.

Our
generation subsidiaries sell electricity into the wholesale
market. Generally, our generation subsidiaries and our marketing
subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the FERC. The FERC has
authorized us to sell generation from our facilities and power from our
marketing subsidiaries at market-based prices. The FERC retains the
authority to modify or withdraw our market-based rate authority and to impose
"cost of service" rates if it determines that the market is not competitive,
that we possess market power or that we are not charging just and reasonable
rates. Any reduction by the FERC in the rates we may receive or any
unfavorable regulation of our business by state regulators could materially
adversely affect our results of operations. See "FERC Market-Based
Rate Authority" in Note 14 to the Financial Statements for information regarding
recent court decisions that could impact the FERC's market-based rate authority
program, and "PJM RPM Litigation" in Note 14 to the Financial Statements for
information regarding the FERC's proceedings that could impact PJM's capacity
pricing model.

In
addition, the acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of electricity
generation facilities require numerous permits, approvals, licenses and
certificates from federal, state and local governmental agencies. We
may not be able to obtain or maintain all required regulatory
approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory
approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approval or fail to
comply with any applicable law or regulation, the operation of our assets and
our sales of electricity could be prevented or delayed or become subject to
additional costs.

Our
generation facilities may not operate as planned, which may increase our
expenses or decrease our revenues and, thus, have an adverse effect on our
financial performance.

 

Our
ability to manage operational risk with respect to our generation plants is
critical to our financial performance. Operation of our power plants
at expected capacity levels involves many risks, including the breakdown or
failure of equipment or processes, accidents, labor disputes and fuel
interruption. In addition, weather and natural disasters can disrupt
our generation plants. Weather conditions also have a direct impact
on the river flows required to operate our hydroelectric plants at expected
capacity levels. Depending on the timing and duration of both planned
and unplanned, complete or partial outages at our power plants (in particular,
if such outages are during peak periods or during periods of, or caused by,
severe weather), or if our planned uprates at power plants are not completed as
scheduled, our revenues from expected energy sales could significantly
decrease and our expenses significantly increase, and we could be required to
purchase power at then-current market prices to satisfy our energy sales
commitments or, in the alternative, pay penalties and damages for failure to
satisfy them. Many of our generating units are reaching mid-life, and
we face the potential for more frequent unplanned outages and the possibility of
planned outages of longer duration to accommodate significant investments in
major component replacements at these facilities.

Changes
in technology may negatively impact the value of our power plants.

A basic
premise of our business is that generating electricity at central power plants
achieves economies of scale and produces electricity at relatively low
prices. There are alternate technologies to produce electricity, most
notably fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic (solar) cells, the
development of which has been expanded due to global climate change
concerns. Research and development activities are ongoing to seek
improvements in alternate technologies. It is possible that advances
will reduce the cost of alternate methods of electricity production to a level
that is equal to or below that of certain central station
production. Also, as new technologies are developed and become
available, the quantity and pattern of electricity usage (the "demand") by
customers could decline, with a corresponding decline in revenues derived by
generators. These alternative energy sources could result in a
decline to the dispatch and capacity factors of our plants. As a
result of all of these factors, the value of our generation facilities could be
significantly reduced.

The
load following contracts that PPL EnergyPlus is awarded do not provide for
specific levels of load, and actual load significantly below or above our
forecasts could adversely affect our energy margins.

We
generally hedge our load following obligations with energy purchases from third
parties, and to a lesser extent with its owned generation. If the
actual load is significantly lower than the expected load, we may be required to
resell power at a lower price than was purchased to supply the load obligation,
resulting in a financial loss. Alternatively, a significant increase
in load could adversely affect our energy margins because we are required under
the terms of the load following contracts to provide the energy necessary to
fulfill increased demand at the contract price, which could be lower than the
cost to procure additional energy on the open market. Therefore, any
significant decrease or increase in load compared to our forecasts, could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial
position.

Our earnings may be affected by
whether we decide to, or are able to, continue to enter into or renew long-term
power sale, fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements to mitigate market
price and supply risk.

As a
result of the PLR contracts and certain other agreements, a substantial portion
of our generation production and capacity value was committed through 2009 under
power sales agreements of various terms that included fixed prices for electric
power. With the expiration of these agreements we have been actively
selling our generation at fixed prices in the wholesale energy market and
participating in load-following or full requirements auctions with utility
companies in the PJM, New England Power Pool and Midwest ISO
regions. In connection with these activities, we have entered into
longer-term fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements that include fixed
prices for a significant portion of our forecasted needs. Whether we
decide to, or are able to, continue to enter into such agreements or renew
existing agreements in the future, prevailing market conditions will affect our
financial performance. For example, in the absence of long-term power
sales agreements, we would sell the energy, capacity and other products from our
facilities in the competitive wholesale power markets under contracts of shorter
duration at then-current market prices. 
 
Current forward prices
for electricity are lower than the prices under some of our existing power sales
agreements. In addition, if we do not secure or maintain favorable
fuel purchase and transportation agreements for our power generation facilities,
our fuel costs (and associated fuel transportation costs) could exceed the
revenues we derive from our energy sales. Given the volatility and
potential for material differences between actual electricity prices and fuel
and other costs, if we do not secure or maintain long-term electricity sales and
fuel purchase and fuel transportation agreements, our margins will be subject to
increased volatility and, depending on future electricity and fuel costs (and
associated fuel transportation costs), our financial results may be materially
adversely affected.

If
market deregulation is reversed or discontinued, our business prospects and
financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

In some
markets, state legislators, government agencies and other interested parties
have made proposals to change the use of market-based pricing, re-regulate areas
of these markets that have previously been deregulated or permit electricity
delivery companies to construct or acquire generating facilities. The
ISOs that oversee the transmission systems in certain wholesale electricity
markets have from time to time been authorized to impose price limitations and
other mechanisms to address volatility in the power markets. These
types of price limitations and other mechanisms may reduce profits that our
wholesale power marketing and trading business would have realized under
competitive market conditions absent such limitations and
mechanisms. Although we generally expect electricity markets to
continue to be competitive, other proposals to re-regulate our industry may be
made, and legislative or other action affecting the electric power restructuring
process may cause the process to be delayed, discontinued or reversed in states
in which we currently, or may in the future, operate.

We
rely on transmission and distribution assets that we do not own or control to
deliver our wholesale electricity. If transmission is disrupted, or
not operated efficiently, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and
deliver power may be hindered.

We depend
on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and
other energy companies to deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to the
wholesale market, as well as the natural gas we purchase for use in our electric
generation facilities. If transmission is disrupted (as a result of
weather, natural disasters or other reasons) or not operated efficiently by
ISOs, in applicable markets, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell
and deliver products and satisfy our contractual obligations may be hindered, or
we may be unable to sell products on the most favorable terms.

The FERC
has issued regulations that require wholesale electric transmission services to
be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. Although
these regulations are designed to encourage competition in wholesale market
transactions for electricity, there is the potential that fair and equal access
to transmission systems will not be available or that transmission capacity will
not be available in the amounts we desire. We cannot predict the
timing of industry changes as a result of these initiatives or the adequacy of
transmission facilities in specific markets or whether ISOs in applicable
markets will efficiently operate transmission networks and provide related
services.

Our
costs to comply with existing and new environmental laws are expected to
continue to be significant, and we plan to incur significant capital
expenditures for pollution control improvements that, if delayed, would
adversely affect our profitability and liquidity.

Our
business is subject to extensive federal, state and local statutes, rules and
regulations relating to environmental protection. To comply with
existing and future environmental requirements and as a result of voluntary
pollution control measures we may take, we have spent and expect to spend
substantial amounts in the future on environmental control and
compliance.

In order
to comply with existing and recently enacted federal and state environmental
laws and regulations primarily governing air emissions from coal-fired plants,
in 2005 PPL began a program to install scrubbers and other pollution control
equipment (primarily aimed at sulfur dioxide, particulate and nitrogen oxides
with co-benefits for mercury emissions reduction). The cost to
install this equipment was approximately $1.6 billion, of which $19 million
remains to be spent. The remaining unspent balance is included in the
2010 through 2012 capital budget. The scrubbers at our Montour and
Brunner Island plants are now in service. Many states and
environmental groups have challenged certain federal laws and regulations
relating to air emissions as not being sufficiently strict. As a
result, it is possible that state and federal regulations will be adopted that
impose more stringent restrictions than are currently in effect, which could
require us to significantly increase capital expenditures for pollution control
equipment.

We may
not be able to obtain or maintain all environmental regulatory approvals
necessary for our planned capital projects or which are otherwise necessary to
our business. If there is a delay in obtaining any required
environmental regulatory approval or if we fail to obtain, maintain or comply
with any such approval, operations at our affected facilities could be halted or
subjected to additional costs. Furthermore, at some of our older
generating facilities it may be uneconomic for us to install necessary
equipment, which could cause us to close those units.

Additionally,
the expanding national and international focus on climate change and the related
desire to reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions has lead to
numerous federal legislative and regulatory proposals, and several states
already have passed legislation capping carbon dioxide emissions. The
continuation of this trend may heighten or make more likely the risks identified
above.

For more
information regarding environmental matters, including existing and proposed
federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations to which we are
subject, see "Environmental Matters - Domestic" in Note 14 to the Financial
Statements.

We
are subject to the risks of nuclear generation, including the risk that our
Susquehanna nuclear plant could become subject to revised security or safety
requirements that would increase our capital and operating expenditures, and
uncertainties associated with decommissioning our plant at the end of its
licensed life.

Nuclear
generation accounted for about 32% of our 2009 generation output. The
risks of nuclear generation generally include:

·

the
 potential harmful effects on the environment and human health from the
 operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of
 radioactive materials;

·

limitations
 on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover
 losses and liabilities that might arise in connection with nuclear
 operations; and

·

uncertainties
 with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning
 nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives. The licenses
 for our two nuclear units expire in 2042 and 2044. See Note 20
 to the Financial Statements for additional information on the ARO related
 to the decommissioning.

The NRC
has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing requirements,
including security, safety and employee-related requirements for the operation
of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the
NRC has authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon
its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is
achieved. In addition, revised security or safety requirements
promulgated by the NRC could necessitate substantial capital or operating
expenditures at our Susquehanna nuclear plant. In addition, although
we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at our Susquehanna
plant, if an incident did occur, any resulting operational loss, damages and
injuries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash
flows or financial condition.

Risks
Related to International Delivery Segment

(
PPL and PPL Energy
Supply
)

Our
U.K. delivery business is subject to risks with respect to rate regulation and
operational performance.

Our U.K.
delivery business is rate regulated and operates under an incentive-based
regulatory framework. In addition, its ability to manage operational
risk is critical to its financial performance. Disruption to the
distribution network could reduce profitability both directly through the higher
costs for network restoration and also through the system of penalties and
rewards that Ofgem has in place relating to customer service
levels.

In
December 2009, Ofgem completed its rate review for the five-year period from
April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2015, thus reducing regulatory rate risk in the
International Delivery Segment until the next rate review which will be
effective April 1, 2015. The results of the rate review are further
discussed in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations." The
regulated income of the International Delivery Segment and also the RAB are to
some extent linked to movements in the Retail Price Index
(RPI). Reductions in the RPI would adversely impact revenues and the
debt/RAB ratio.

Our
U.K. delivery business exposes us to risks related to U.K. laws and regulations,
taxes, economic conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and
political conditions and policies of the U.K. government. These risks
may reduce the results of operations from our U.K. delivery
business.

The
acquisition, financing, development and operation of projects in the U.K. entail
significant financial risks including:

·

changes
 in laws or regulations relating to U.K. operations, including tax laws and
 regulations;

·

changes
 in government policies, personnel or approval
 requirements;

·

changes
 in general economic conditions affecting the U.K.;

·

regulatory
 reviews of tariffs for distribution companies;

·

severe
 weather and natural disaster impacts on the electric sector and our
 assets;

·

changes
 in labor relations;

·

limitations
 on foreign investment or ownership of projects and returns or
 distributions to foreign investors;

·

limitations
 on the ability of foreign companies to borrow money from foreign lenders
 and lack of local capital or loans;

·

fluctuations
 in currency exchange rates and in converting U.K. revenues to U.S.
 dollars, which can increase our expenses and/or impair our ability to meet
 such expenses, and difficulty moving funds out of the country in which the
 funds were earned; and

·

compliance
 with U.S. foreign corrupt practices
laws.

Risks
Related to Pennsylvania Delivery Segment

(
PPL and PPL
Electric
)

Regulators
may not approve the rates we request.

Our
Pennsylvania delivery business is rate-regulated. While such
regulation is generally premised on the recovery of prudently incurred costs,
including energy supply costs for customers, and a reasonable rate of return on
invested capital, the rates that we may charge our delivery customers are
subject to authorization of the applicable regulatory
authorities. Our Pennsylvania delivery business is subject to
substantial capital expenditure requirements over the next several years, which
will require rate increase requests to the regulators. There is no
guarantee that the rates authorized by regulators will match our actual costs or
provide a particular return on invested capital at any given time.

Our
transmission and distribution facilities may not operate as planned, which may
increase our expenses or decrease our revenues and, thus, have an adverse effect
on our financial performance.

Our
ability to manage operational risk with respect to our transmission and
distribution systems is critical to the financial performance of our delivery
business. Our delivery business also faces several risks, including
the breakdown or failure of or damage to equipment or processes (especially due
to severe weather or natural disasters), accidents and labor disputes and other
factors. Operation of our delivery systems below our expectations may
result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance
costs.

We
may be subject to higher transmission costs and other risks as a result of PJM's
regional transmission expansion plan (RTEP) process.

PJM and
the FERC have the authority to require upgrades or expansion of the regional
transmission grid, which can result in substantial expenditures for transmission
owners. As discussed in Note 8 to the Financial Statements, we expect
to make substantial expenditures to construct the Susquehanna-Roseland
transmission line that PJM has determined is necessary for the reliability of
the regional transmission grid. Although the FERC has granted our
request for incentive rate treatment of such facilities, we cannot predict the
date when these facilities will be in service or whether delays may occur due to
public opposition or other factors. Delays could result in
significant cost increases for these facilities and decreased reliability of the
regional transmission grid. As a result, we cannot predict the
ultimate financial or operational impact of this project or other RTEP projects
on PPL Electric.

We
could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory
reliability standards.

Under the
Energy Policy Act, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system
are now subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the NERC and
enforced by the FERC. Compliance with reliability standards may
subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures, and
violations of these standards could result in substantial
penalties.

We
could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to Pennsylvania
Conservation and Energy Efficiency Programs.

Act 129
became effective in October 2008. 
This law
created requirements for energy efficiency and conservation programs and for the
use of smart metering technology, imposed new PLR electricity supply procurement
rules, provided remedies for market misconduct, and made changes to the existing
Alternative Energy Portfolio Standard. 
Utilities not meeting the
requirements of Act 129 are subject to significant penalties that cannot be
recovered in rates. The law also requires electric utilities to meet
specified goals for reduction in customer electricity usage and peak demand by
specified dates (2011 and 2013). Although we expect to meet these
requirements, numerous factors outside of our control could prevent compliance
with these requirements and result in penalties to us. See
"Regulatory Issues - Energy Policy Act of 2005 - Reliability Standards" in Note
14 to the Financial Statements for additional information.

Rate
deregulation remains subject to political risks.

Although
prior initiatives have not resulted in the enactment of legislation, the
possibility remains that certain Pennsylvania legislators could introduce
legislation to extend generation rate caps or otherwise limit cost recovery
through rates for Pennsylvania utilities after the end of applicable transition
periods, which in PPL Electric's case was December 31, 2009. If
such legislation were introduced and ultimately enacted, PPL Electric could face
severe financial consequences including operating losses and significant cash
flow shortfalls. In addition, continuing uncertainty regarding PPL
Electric's ability to recover its market supply and other costs of operating its
business could adversely affect its credit quality, financing costs and
availability of credit facilities necessary to operate its
business.

Other
Risks Related to All Segments

(
PPL, PPL Energy Supply and PPL
Electric
)

We
will selectively pursue growth of generation and transmission and distribution
capacity, which involves a number of uncertainties and may not achieve the
desired financial results.

We will
pursue expansion of our generation and transmission and distribution capacity
over the next several years through power uprates at certain of our existing
power plants, the potential construction of new power plants, the potential
acquisition of existing plants, the potential construction or acquisition of
transmission and distribution projects and capital investments to upgrade
transmission and distribution infrastructure. We will rigorously
scrutinize opportunities to expand our generating capability and may determine
not to proceed with any expansion. These types of projects involve
numerous risks. Any planned power uprates could result in cost
overruns, reduced plant efficiency and higher operating and other
costs. With respect to the construction of new plants, the
acquisition of existing plants, or the construction or acquisition of
transmission and distribution projects, we may be required to expend significant
sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, resource exploration, legal and
other expenses before it can be established whether a project is feasible,
economically attractive or capable of being financed. The success of
both a new or acquired project would likely be contingent, among other things,
upon the negotiation of satisfactory operating contracts, obtaining acceptable
financing, maintaining acceptable credit ratings, as well as receipt of required
and appropriate governmental approvals. If we were unable to complete
construction or expansion of a facility, we would generally be unable to recover
our investment in the project. Furthermore, we might be unable to run
any new or acquired plants as efficiently as projected, which could result in
higher than projected operating and other costs and reduced
earnings.

The
economic and financial markets in which we operate could adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations.

In 2008,
conditions in the financial markets became disruptive to the processes of
managing credit risk, responding to liquidity needs, measuring at fair value
derivatives and other financial instruments and managing market
risk. The contraction of liquidity in the wholesale energy markets
and accompanying significant decline in wholesale energy prices significantly
impacted our earnings during the second half of 2008 and the first half of
2009. The breadth and depth of these negative economic conditions had
a wide-ranging impact on the U.S. and international business environment,
including our businesses, and may continue to do so. As a result of
the economic downturn, demand for energy commodities has declined
significantly. This reduced demand will continue to impact the key
domestic wholesale energy markets we serve (such as PJM) and our Pennsylvania
delivery business, especially industrial customer demand. The
combination of lower demand for power and natural gas and other fuels has put
downward price pressure on the wholesale energy market in general, further
impacting our energy marketing results. In general, current economic
and commodity market conditions will continue to challenge the predictability
regarding our unhedged future energy margins, liquidity and overall financial
condition.

Our
businesses are heavily dependent on credit and capital, among other things, for
providing collateral to support hedging in our energy marketing
business. Global bank credit capacity was reduced and the cost of
renewing or establishing new credit facilities increased significantly in 2008,
primarily as a result of general credit concerns nationwide, thereby introducing
uncertainties as to our businesses' ability to enter into long-term energy
commitments or reliably estimate the longer-term cost and availability of
credit. Although bank credit conditions have improved since mid-2009,
and we currently expect to have adequate access to needed credit and capital
based on current conditions, deterioration in the financial markets could
adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity.

The
current condition of the economic and financial markets in which we operate is
expected to continue to impact numerous other aspects of our business operations
discussed elsewhere in this Risk Factor section.

Our
operating results could fluctuate on a seasonal basis, especially as a result of
severe weather conditions.

Our
businesses are subject to seasonal demand cycles. For example, in
some markets demand for, and market prices of, electricity peak during hot
summer months, while in other markets such peaks occur in cold winter
months. As a result, our overall operating results in the future may
fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis if weather conditions such as heat
waves, extreme cold weather or severe storms occur. The patterns of
these fluctuations may change depending on the type and location of our
facilities and the terms of our contracts to sell electricity.

We
cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings and investigations currently
being conducted with respect to our current and past business
activities. An adverse determination could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows.

We are
involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation and subject to ongoing
state and federal investigations arising out of our business operations, the
most significant of which are summarized in "Legal Matters," "Regulatory Issues"
and in "Environmental Matters - Domestic" in Note 14 to the Financial
Statements. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters,
nor can we reasonably estimate the costs or liability that could potentially
result from a negative outcome in each case.

We
may need significant additional financing to pursue growth
opportunities.

We
continually review potential acquisitions and development projects and may enter
into significant acquisition agreements or development commitments in the
future. An acquisition agreement or development commitment may
require access to substantial capital from outside sources on acceptable
terms. We also may need external financing to fund capital
expenditures, including capital expenditures necessary to comply with
environmental or other regulatory requirements. Our ability to
arrange financing and our cost of capital are dependent on numerous factors,
including general economic conditions, credit availability and our financial
performance. The inability to obtain sufficient financing on terms
that are acceptable to us could adversely affect our ability to pursue
acquisition and development opportunities and fund capital
expenditures.

A
downgrade in our credit ratings could negatively affect our ability to access
capital and increase the cost of maintaining our credit facilities and any new
debt.

Our
current credit ratings by Moody's, Fitch and S&P, including a January 2009
review by S&P that resulted in a negative outlook for us, are listed in
"Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations - Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources - Credit
Ratings." While we do not expect these ratings to limit our ability
to fund short-term liquidity needs or access new long-term debt, any ratings
downgrade could increase our short-term borrowing costs and negatively affect
our ability to fund short-term liquidity needs and access new long-term
debt. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition - Liquidity and
Capital Resources - Ratings Triggers" for additional information on the impact
of a downgrade in our credit rating.

Significant
increases in our operation and maintenance expenses, including health care and
pension costs, could adversely affect our future earnings and
liquidity.

We
continually focus on limiting and reducing where possible our operation and
maintenance expenses. However, we expect to continue to face
increased cost pressures in our operations. Increased costs of materials and
labor may result from general inflation, increased regulatory requirements,
especially in respect of environmental protection, the need for higher cost
expertise in the workforce or other factors. In addition, pursuant to
collective bargaining agreements, we are contractually committed to provide
specified levels of health care and pension benefits to certain current
employees and retirees. We provide a similar level of benefits to our
management employees. These benefits give rise to significant
expenses. Due to general inflation with respect to such costs, the
aging demographics of our workforce and other factors, we have experienced
significant health care cost inflation in recent years, and we expect our health
care costs, including prescription drug coverage, to continue to increase
despite measures that we have taken and expect to take to require employees and
retirees to bear a higher portion of the costs of their health care
benefits. In addition, we expect to continue to incur significant
costs with respect to the defined benefit pension plans for our employees and
retirees. The measurement of our expected future health care and
pension obligations, costs and liabilities is highly dependent on a variety of
assumptions, most of which relate to factors beyond our
control. These assumptions include investment returns, interest
rates, health care cost trends, benefit improvements, salary increases and the
demographics of plan participants. If our assumptions prove to be
inaccurate, our future costs and cash contribution requirements to fund these
benefits could increase significantly.

There
is a risk that we may be required to record impairment charges in the future for
certain of our investments, which could adversely affect our
earnings.

Under
GAAP, we are required to test our recorded goodwill for impairment on an annual
basis, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that these assets
may be impaired. Although no goodwill impairments were recorded based
on our annual review in the fourth quarter of 2009, we are unable to predict
whether future impairment charges may be necessary.

We also
review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be
recoverable. During 2009, PPL recorded impairment charges related to
certain sulfur dioxide emission allowances and the Long Island generation
business that is being sold. During 2008, PPL recorded impairment
charges related to a cancelled hydroelectric expansion project, certain emission
allowances and its natural gas distribution and propane businesses that were
sold in 2008. During 2007, PPL impaired certain transmission rights,
certain domestic telecommunications assets, certain assets of the natural gas
distribution and propane businesses, and the net assets of our Bolivian
businesses prior to their sale in 2007. See Notes 8, 9 and 17 to the
Financial Statements for additional information on these charges. We
are unable to predict whether impairment charges, or other losses on sales of
other assets or businesses, may occur in future years.