,” below and elsewhere in this report. These and many other factors could affect Applied’s future financial condition and operating results and could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations based on forward-looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by Applied or on its behalf. Forward-looking statements are based on management’s estimates, projections and expectations as of the date hereof, and Applied undertakes no obligation to revise or update any such statements. The following information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 2 Table of Contents APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 25, 2015 TABLE OF CONTENTS 3 Table of Contents PART I Incorporated in 1967, Applied is a Delaware corporation. A global company with a broad set of capabilities in materials engineering, Applied provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the global semiconductor, display, solar photovoltaic (PV) and related industries. With its diverse technology capabilities, Applied delivers products and services that improve device performance, yield and cost. Applied’s customers include manufacturers of semiconductor chips, liquid crystal and other displays, solar PV cells, and other electronic devices. These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components. Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October. Applied operates in four reportable segments: Silicon Systems, Applied Global Services, Display, and Energy and Environmental Solutions. A summary of financial information for each reportable segment is found in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A discussion of factors that could affect operations is set forth under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. Net sales by reportable segment for the past three fiscal years were as follows: Silicon Systems Applied’s Silicon Systems segment develops, manufactures and sells a wide range of manufacturing equipment used to fabricate semiconductor chips, also referred to as integrated circuits (ICs). The Silicon Systems segment includes semiconductor capital equipment for deposition, etch, ion implantation, rapid thermal processing, chemical mechanical planarization, metrology and inspection, and wafer packaging. The majority of Applied's new equipment sales are to leading integrated device manufacturers and foundries worldwide. Transistor and Interconnect Applied’s transistor and interconnect products and technologies have enabled multiple generations of device scaling from planar transistors to today’s 3D multi-gate FinFET transistors. Applied offers products and technologies for transistor and interconnect fabrication, including epitaxy, ion implantation, oxidation and nitridation, rapid thermal processing, chemical vapor deposition, physical vapor deposition, chemical mechanical planarization and electrochemical deposition. Many of these process steps are used multiple times throughout the semiconductor chip fabrication process. 4 Table of Contents Patterning and Packaging Applied offers patterning and packaging products and systems that enable the transfer of patterns onto device structures, making it possible to etch masks used for photolithography, and perform deposition, etching, and related processes. These systems and technologies address challenges resulting from shrinking pattern dimensions and the complexity in vertical stacking found in today’s most advanced semiconductor devices. 5 Table of Contents Imaging and Process Control Applied offers a suite of metrology, inspection and review systems for front- and back-end-of-line applications. These systems’ imaging capabilities and algorithms employ optical and e-beam technologies to meet the most advanced technical demands, such as self-aligned double and quad patterning, extreme ultraviolet layers, measurement-intensive optimal proximity correction mask qualification, and emerging 3D architectures. Applied delivers leading-edge capabilities that enable chipmakers to establish accurate statistical process control, ramp up production runs rapidly, and achieve consistently high production yields. Applied Global Services The Applied Global Services (AGS) segment provides integrated solutions to optimize equipment and fab performance and productivity, including spares, upgrades, services, remanufactured earlier generation equipment and factory automation software for semiconductor, display and solar products. Customer demand for products and services is fulfilled through a global distribution system with trained service engineers located in close proximity to customer sites in more than a dozen countries to support approximately 33,000 installed Applied semiconductor, display and solar manufacturing systems worldwide. Applied offers the following general types of services and products under the Applied Global Services segment. 6 Table of Contents Display The Display segment is comprised of products for manufacturing liquid crystal displays (LCDs), organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs), and other display technologies for TVs, personal computers (PCs), tablets, smart phones, and other consumer-oriented devices. While similarities exist between the technologies utilized in semiconductor and display fabrication, the most significant differences are in the size and composition of the substrate. Substrates used to manufacture display panels are typically glass, although newer flexible materials are entering the market. Display industry growth depends primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs and high resolution displays for mobile devices. The Display segment offers a variety of technologies and products, including: Energy and Environmental Solutions The Energy and Environmental Solutions segment includes products for fabricating crystalline-silicon (c-Si) solar PV cells, as well as high throughput roll-to-roll deposition equipment for flexible electronics, packaging and other applications. The technologies and products offered in the Energy and Environmental Solutions segment include: 7 Table of Contents Backlog Applied manufactures systems to meet demand represented by order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog consists of: (1) orders for which written authorizations have been accepted and assigned shipment dates are within the next 12 months, or shipment has occurred but revenue has not been recognized; and (2) contractual service revenue and maintenance fees to be earned within the next 12 months. Backlog by reportable segment as of October 25, 2015 and October 26, 2014 was as follows: Applied’s backlog on any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any future periods, due to the potential for customer changes in delivery schedules or order cancellations. Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders prior to shipment, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Delays in delivery schedules or a reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business and results of operations. Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies Applied’s manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembly, test and integration of various proprietary and commercial parts, components and subassemblies that are used to manufacture systems. Applied has implemented a distributed manufacturing model under which manufacturing and supply chain activities are conducted in various countries, including Germany, Israel, Italy, Singapore, Taiwan, the United States and other countries in Asia. Applied uses numerous vendors, including contract manufacturers, to supply parts and assembly services for the manufacture and support of its products, including some systems being completed at customer sites. Although Applied makes reasonable efforts to assure that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always possible. Accordingly, some key parts may be obtained from only a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Applied seeks to reduce costs and to lower the risks of manufacturing and service interruptions by selecting and qualifying alternate suppliers for key parts; monitoring the financial condition of key suppliers; maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts; qualifying new parts on a timely basis; and ensuring quality and performance of parts. 8 Table of Contents Research, Development and Engineering Applied’s long-term growth strategy requires continued development of new products, including products that enable expansion into new markets. Applied's significant investments in research, development and engineering (RD&E) must generally enable it to deliver new products and technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus allowing customers to incorporate these products into their manufacturing plans during early-stage technology selection. Applied works closely with its global customers to design systems and processes that meet their planned technical and production requirements. Applied’s product development and engineering organizations are located primarily in the United States, as well as in in Canada, China, Europe, India, Israel, Singapore and Taiwan. In addition, certain outsourced RD&E activities, process support and customer demonstrations are performed in the United States, India, China, Singapore and Taiwan. Applied's investments in RD&E for product development and engineering programs over the last three fiscal years were as follows: $1.5 billion ( 15 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2015 , $1.4 billion ( 16 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2014 , and $1.3 billion ( 18 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2013 . Applied has spent an average of 14 percent of net sales in RD&E over the last five years. In addition to RD&E for specific product technologies, Applied maintains ongoing programs for automation control systems, materials research, and environmental control that are applicable to its products. Marketing and Sales Net sales by geographic region for the past three fiscal years, determined by the location of customers' facilities to which products were shipped, were as follows: Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied markets and sells products worldwide almost entirely through a direct sales force. General economic conditions can impact the company’s business and financial results. Applied’s business is based on capital equipment investments by major semiconductor, display, solar PV and other manufacturers, and is subject to cyclical industry conditions. Customers’ expenditures depend on many factors, including: anticipated market demand and pricing for semiconductors, display technologies and solar cells, and other electronic devices; the development of new technologies; customers’ factory utilization; capital resources and financing; government policies and incentives; and global and regional economic conditions. In addition, a significant driver in the semiconductor and display industries is end-demand for mobile consumer products, which is characterized by seasonality that impacts the timing of customer investments in manufacturing equipment and, in turn, Applied’s business. Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and long-lived assets attributable to Applied’s geographic regions is included in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following companies accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales in each fiscal year, which were for products in multiple reportable segments. 9 Table of Contents Competition The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Applied’s ability to compete generally depends on its ability to timely commercialize its technology, continually improve its products, and develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors include technical capability and differentiation, productivity, cost-effectiveness and the ability to support a global customer base. The importance of these factors varies according to customers’ needs, including product mix and respective product requirements, applications, and the timing and circumstances of purchasing decisions. Substantial competition exists in all areas of Applied’s business. Competitors range from small companies that compete in a single region, which may benefit from policies and regulations that favor domestic companies, to global, diversified companies. Applied’s ability to compete requires a high level of investment in RD&E, marketing and sales, and global customer support activities. Management believes that many of Applied’s products have strong competitive positions. The competitive environment for each segment is described below. The semiconductor industry has been increasingly driven by consumer demand for lower-cost electronic products with increased capability, particularly mobility devices such as smartphones and tablets. As a result, products within the Silicon Systems segment are subject to significant changes in customer requirements, including transitions to smaller dimensions, new materials and an increasing number of applications. While certain existing technologies may be adapted to new requirements, some applications create the need for an entirely different technological approach. The rapid pace of technological change can quickly diminish the value of current technologies and products and create opportunities for existing and new competitors. Applied offers a variety of technologically-differentiated products that must continuously evolve to satisfy customers’ requirements in order to compete effectively in the marketplace. Applied allocates resources among its numerous product offerings and therefore may decide not to invest in an individual product to the same degree as competitors who specialize in fewer products. There are a number of competitors serving the semiconductor manufacturing equipment industry, which has experienced increasing consolidation. Some of these competitors offer a single product line and others offer multiple product lines, and range from suppliers serving a single region to global, diversified companies. The competitive environment for Silicon Systems in fiscal 2015 reflected steady demand for semiconductor equipment, with increased investment in technology upgrades and additional capacity by memory customers. Demand from foundry customers reflected investments in new technology at advanced nodes, driven by demand for advanced mobile chips. Products and services within the Applied Global Services segment complement Silicon Systems, Display, and Energy and Environmental Solutions segments’ products in markets that are characterized by demanding worldwide service requirements and a diverse group of numerous competitors. To compete effectively, Applied offers products and services to improve tool performance, lower overall cost of ownership, and increase the productivity and energy efficiency of customers’ fab operations. Significant competitive factors include productivity, cost-effectiveness, and the level of technical service and support. The importance of these factors varies according to customers’ needs and the type of products or services offered. Industry conditions that affected Applied Global Services’ sales of spares and services in fiscal 2015 were principally semiconductor manufacturers' wafer starts and factory utilization rates. Products in the Display segment are generally subject to strong competition from a number of major competitors primarily in Asia. Applied holds established market positions with its technically-differentiated LCD and OLED manufacturing solutions for PECVD, color filter PVD, PVD array, PVD touch panel, and TFT array testing, although its market position could change quickly due to customers' evolving requirements. The competitive environment for the Display segment in fiscal 2015 was characterized by continued demand for manufacturing equipment for TVs and high-end mobile devices, although this sector remains susceptible to highly cyclical conditions. Important factors affecting the competitive position of Applied's Display products include: industry trends, Applied's ability to innovate and develop new products, and the extent to which Applied's products are technically-differentiated, as well as which customers within a highly concentrated customer base are making capital equipment investments and Applied's existing position at these customers. Applied's products within the Energy and Environmental Solutions segment compete in several diverse market areas, including the c-Si solar equipment market. The solar equipment market has been characterized by significant pressure to reduce customers' overall production costs and increase conversion efficiency. While end-market demand for solar PVs has been robust over the last several years, investment levels in capital equipment remained low in fiscal 2015. With respect to its c-Si equipment products, Applied competes with a number of other companies, some of which have significant experience with solar applications and some of which are new entrants to the solar equipment market. The solar industry downturn has affected many of Applied's competitors and customers adversely, with some companies going through extensive financial and organizational restructuring, and in some instances ceasing operations. 10 Table of Contents Patents and Licenses Applied’s competitive position significantly depends upon its research, development, engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities, as well as its patent position. Protection of Applied's technology assets through enforcement of its intellectual property rights, including patents, is important. Applied’s practice is to file patent applications in the United States and other countries for inventions that it considers significant. Applied has approximately 10,200 patents in the United States and other countries, and additional applications are pending for new inventions. Although Applied does not consider its business materially dependent upon any one patent, the rights of Applied and the products made and sold under its patents, taken as a whole, are a significant element of its business. In addition to its patents, Applied possesses other intellectual property, including trademarks, know-how, trade secrets, and copyrights. Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements with other companies when it is determined to be in its best interest. Applied pays royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of its products, of certain patented technologies. Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted to third parties. Royalties received from or paid to third parties have not been, and are not expected to be, material to Applied’s consolidated results of operations. In the normal course of business, Applied periodically receives and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In responding to such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights. However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If Applied is not able to resolve or settle claims, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Environmental Matters Applied maintains a number of environmental, health, and safety programs that are primarily preventative in nature. As part of these programs, Applied regularly monitors ongoing compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, Applied has trained personnel to conduct investigations of any environmental, health, or safety incidents, including, but not limited to, spills, releases, or possible contamination. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, remedial agreements, and other actions relating to the environment have not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on Applied’s capital expenditures, competitive position, financial condition, or results of operations. The most recent report on Applied’s environmental, health and safety activities can be found in Applied’s latest Citizenship Report on its website at http://www.appliedmaterials.com/company/corporate-responsibility/reports. The Citizenship Report is updated periodically. This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the information on, or accessible through, Applied’s website is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein. Employees At October 25, 2015 , Applied employed approximately 14,600 regular employees and 900 temporary employees. In the high-technology industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense. Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent upon its continued ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees. 11 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table and notes set forth information about Applied’s executive officers: 12 Table of Contents Available Information Applied’s website is http://www.appliedmaterials.com. Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its website, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. The SEC’s website, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These website addresses are intended to be an inactive textual references only. None of the information on, or accessible through, these websites is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein. 13 Table of Contents The following factors could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition or results of operations and cause reputational harm, and they should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere in this report. The industries that Applied serves are volatile and difficult to predict. As a supplier to the global semiconductor, display, and solar industries, Applied is subject to business cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which can be difficult to predict and which vary by reportable segment. These industries historically have been cyclical due to sudden changes in customers’ requirements for new manufacturing capacity and advanced technology, which depend in part on customers’ capacity utilization, production volumes, access to affordable capital, end-use demand, consumer buying patterns, and inventory levels relative to demand, as well as the rate of technology transitions and general economic conditions. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers’ purchases and investments in technology, and continue to affect Applied’s orders, net sales, operating expenses and net income. In particular, the amount and mix of capital equipment spending between foundry, memory and logic customers can have a significant impact on the results of operations of our Silicon Systems segment, which is the largest contributor to Applied’s consolidated net sales and total new orders. To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity for each of its segments as well as across multiple segments, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations. During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs. During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees. If Applied does not effectively manage its costs during periods of decreasing demand, its gross margins and earnings may be adversely impacted. Applied is exposed to risks associated with the uncertain global economy. Uncertain global economic conditions along with uncertainties in the financial markets, national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions, and government austerity measures, are posing challenges to the industries in which Applied operates. The markets for semiconductors and displays in particular depend largely on consumer spending. Economic uncertainty and related factors exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause certain Applied customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for equipment or services, which may in turn reduce Applied's net sales, reduce backlog, and affect Applied’s ability to convert backlog to sales. Uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other manufacturers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales and/or additional inventory or bad debt expense for Applied. These conditions may similarly affect key suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for Applied’s products or added costs. In addition, these conditions may lead to strategic alliances by, or consolidation of, other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect Applied’s ability to compete effectively. Uncertainty about future economic and industry conditions also makes it more challenging for Applied to forecast its operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect its businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. Applied may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect Applied’s ability to capitalize on opportunities. In addition, Applied maintains an investment portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. The risks to Applied’s investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio, as well as returns on pension assets, could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges. Applied also maintains cash balances in various bank accounts globally in order to fund normal operations. If any of these financial institutions becomes insolvent, it could limit Applied’s ability to access cash in the affected accounts. 14 Table of Contents Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates. The global semiconductor, display, solar and related industries in which Applied operates are characterized by ongoing changes affecting some or all of these industries that impact demand for and/or the profitability of Applied's products, including: Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the semiconductor industry. The largest proportion of Applied’s consolidated net sales and profitability has been and continues to be derived from sales of manufacturing equipment in the Silicon Systems segment to the global semiconductor industry. In addition, a majority of the revenues of Applied Global Services is from sales of service products to semiconductor manufacturers. The semiconductor industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to this industry that impact demand for and/or the profitability of Applied's semiconductor equipment and service products, including: 15 Table of Contents Applied must accurately forecast, and allocate appropriate resources and investment towards addressing, key technology changes and inflections in order to enable opportunities for gains. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the display industry. The global display industry historically has experienced considerable volatility in capital equipment investment levels, due in part to the limited number of display manufacturers, the concentrated nature of end-use applications, production capacity relative to end-use demand, and panel manufacturer profitability. Industry growth has depended primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs and, more recently, on demand for smartphones and other mobile devices, which demand is highly sensitive to cost and improvements in technologies and features. The display industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to this industry that impact demand for and/or the profitability of Applied's display products, including: 16 Table of Contents Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the solar industry. Investment levels in capital equipment for the global solar industry have experienced considerable volatility. In recent years, global solar PV production capacity has exceeded end-use demand, causing customers to significantly reduce or delay investments in manufacturing capacity and new technology, or to cease operations. Recently, Applied implemented cost reduction measures in its solar business, and as a result incurred restructuring charges, asset impairments and inventory-related charges. The global solar market is characterized by ongoing changes specific to this industry that impact demand for and/or the profitability of Applied’s solar products, including: Applied must continually innovate, commercialize its products, and adapt its business and product offerings to respond to competition and rapid technological changes. As Applied operates in a highly competitive environment in which innovation is critical, its future success depends on many factors, including the effective commercialization and customer acceptance of its equipment, services and related products. In addition, Applied must successfully execute its growth strategy, including enhancing its presence in existing markets, expanding into related markets, cultivating new markets and exceeding industry growth rates, while constantly improving its operational performance. The development, introduction and support of a broadening set of products in more collaborative, geographically diverse, open and varied competitive environments have grown more complex and expensive over time. Furthermore, new or improved products may entail higher costs and reduced profits. Applied’s performance may be adversely affected if it does not timely, cost-effectively and successfully: 17 Table of Contents Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Applied’s semiconductor customer base historically has been, and is becoming even more, highly concentrated as a result of economic and industry conditions. In fiscal 2015 , two semiconductor manufacturers accounted for approximately 41 percent of the Silicon Systems segment's net sales and two customers accounted for 33 percent of Applied’s consolidated net sales. Applied’s display customer base is also highly concentrated. Applied’s customer base is also geographically-concentrated. See