” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Company’s expectations will be realized. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised to refer to any further disclosures the Company makes or related subjects in the Company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K that the Company files with the SEC. Certain forward-looking and other statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or other locations, such as our corporate website, contain various environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) standards and frameworks (including standards for the measurement of underlying data) and the interests of various stakeholders. As such, such information may not, and should not be interpreted as necessarily being, “material” under the federal securities laws for SEC reporting purposes, even if we use the word “material” or “materiality” in this document. ESG information is also often reliant on third-party information or methodologies that are subject to evolving expectations and best practices, and our approach to and discussion of these matters may continue to evolve as well. For example, our disclosures may change due to revisions in framework requirements, availability of information, changes in our business or applicable governmental policies, or other factors, some of which may be beyond our control. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview The Company is North America’s largest publicly traded owner and operator of open-air, grocery-anchored shopping centers and a growing portfolio of mixed-use assets. The Company’s mission is to create destinations for everyday living that inspire a sense of community and deliver value to our many stakeholders. The Company began operations through its predecessor, The Kimco Corporation, which was organized in 1966 upon the contribution of several shopping center properties owned by its principal stockholders. In 1973, these principals formed the Company as a Delaware corporation, and, in 1985, the operations of The Kimco Corporation were merged into the Company. The Company completed its initial public stock offering (the “IPO”) in November 1991, and, commencing with its taxable year which began January 1, 1992, elected to qualify as a REIT in accordance with Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). To qualify as a REIT, the Company must meet several organizational and operational requirements and is required to annually distribute at least 90% of its net taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. In addition, the Company will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that it distributes less than 100% of its net taxable income, including any net capital gains. In January of 2023, the Company consummated the Reorganization into an UPREIT structure as described in the Explanatory Note at the beginning of this Annual Report. If, as the Company believes, it is organized and operates in such a manner so as to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT under the Code, the Company generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax, provided that distributions to its stockholders equal at least the amount of its REIT taxable income, as defined in the Code. The Company maintains certain subsidiaries that made joint elections with the Company to be treated as taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRSs”). This permits the Company to engage in certain business activities that a REIT may not conduct directly, by conducting such business activities through such TRSs. A TRS is subject to federal and state taxes on its income, and the Company includes a provision for taxes in its consolidated financial statements. In 1994, the Predecessor reorganized as a Maryland corporation. In March 2006, the Predecessor was added to the S&P 500 Index, an index containing the stock of 500 Large Cap companies, most of which are U.S. corporations. The Company's common stock, Class L Depositary Shares, Class M Depositary Shares, and Class N Depositary Shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the trading symbols “KIM”, “KIMprL”, “KIMprM”, and “KIMprN”, respectively. The Company is a self-administered REIT and has not engaged, nor does it expect to retain, any REIT advisors in connection with the operation of its properties. The Company’s ownership interests in real estate consist of its consolidated portfolio and portfolios where the Company owns an economic interest, such as properties in the Company’s investment real estate management programs, where the Company partners with institutional investors and also retains management. The Company began to expand its operations through the development of real estate and the construction of shopping centers but revised its growth strategy to focus on the acquisition and redevelopment of existing shopping centers that include a grocery component. Additionally, the Company developed various residential and mixed-use operating properties and continues to obtain entitlements to embark on additional projects of this nature through re-development opportunities. The Company has implemented its investment real estate management format through the establishment of various institutional joint venture programs, in which the Company has noncontrolling interests. The Company earns management fees, acquisition fees, disposition fees as well as promoted interests based on achieving certain performance metrics. In addition, the Company has capitalized on its established expertise in retail real estate by establishing other ventures in which the Company owns a smaller equity interest and provides management, leasing and operational support for those properties. The Company has also provided preferred equity capital to real estate professionals and, from time to time, provides real estate capital, financing and management services to both healthy and distressed retailers. The Company has also made selective investments in secondary market opportunities where a security or other investment is, in management’s judgment, priced below the value of the underlying assets, however, these investments are subject to volatility within the equity and debt markets. As described in greater detail in the Explanatory Note to this Form 10-K, (i) on January 1, 2023, as a result of the Reorganization, the Parent Company, a Maryland corporation, became the successor issuer to the Predecessor, and (ii) on January 3, 2023, the Predecessor converted into Kimco OP, a limited liability company, organized in the State of Delaware. At December 31, 2023, the Parent Company is the managing member of Kimco OP and owns 100% of the limited liability company interests of, and exercises exclusive control over, Kimco OP. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had interests in 523 shopping center properties (the “Combined Shopping Center Portfolio”), aggregating 89.7 million square feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”), located in 28 states. In addition, the Company had 21 other property interests, primarily through the Company’s preferred equity investments and other investments, totaling 5.5 million square feet of GLA. 4 Table of Contents RPT Merger On August 28, 2023, the Company and RPT Realty (“RPT”) announced that they had entered into a definitive merger agreement (the “Merger Agreement”) pursuant to which the Company would acquire RPT through a series of mergers (collectively, the “RPT Merger”). On January 2, 2024, RPT merged with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving public company. The RPT Merger added 56 open-air shopping centers, 43 of which are wholly owned and 13 of which are owned through a joint venture, comprising 13.3 million square feet of GLA, to the Company’s existing portfolio of 523 properties. In addition, pursuant to the RPT Merger, the Company obtained RPT’s 6% stake in a 49-property net lease joint venture. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, each RPT common share was converted into 0.6049 of a newly issued share of the Company’s common stock, together with cash in lieu of fractional shares, and each 7.25% Series D Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Share of RPT was converted into the right to receive one depositary share representing one one-thousandth of a share of the Company’s 7.25% Class N Cumulative Convertible Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the “Class N Preferred Stock”). In connection with the RPT Merger, the Company issued 53.0 million shares of common stock, 1.8 million shares of Class N Preferred Stock, and 953,400 OP Units. See Footnote 28 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the RPT Merger. Economic Conditions The economy continues to face several issues, including inflation risk, liquidity constraints, lack of qualified employees, tenant bankruptcies and supply chain disruptions, which could impact the Company and its tenants. In response to the rising rate of inflation, the Federal Reserve steadily increased interest rates and has kept them at elevated levels. The Federal Reserve may continue to increase interest rates or maintain these elevated levels, until the rate of inflation begins to decrease. These elevated interest rates could adversely impact the business and financial results of the Company and its tenants. In addition, slower economic growth and the potential for a recession could have an adverse effect on the Company and its tenants. This could negatively affect the overall demand for retail space, including the demand for leasable space in the Company’s properties. Any of these events could materially adversely impact the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. The Company continues to monitor economic, financial, and social conditions and will assess its asset portfolio for any impairment indicators. If the Company determines that any of its assets are impaired, the Company would be required to take impairment charges, and such amounts could be material. Business Objective and Strategies The Company has developed a strong nationally diversified portfolio of open-air, grocery anchored shopping centers located in drivable first-ring suburbs primarily within 18 major metropolitan sun belt and coastal markets, which are supported by strong demographics, significant projected population growth, and where the Company perceives significant barriers to entry. As of December 31, 2023, the Company derived 86% of its proportionate share of annualized base rental revenues from these top major metro markets. The Company’s shopping centers provide essential, necessity-based goods and services to the local communities and are primarily anchored by a grocery store, home improvement center, off-price retailer, discounter and/or service-oriented tenant. 5 Table of Contents The Company’s focus on high-quality locations has led to significant opportunities for value creation through the reinvestment in its assets to add density, replace outdated shopping center concepts, and better meet changing consumer demands. In order to add density to existing properties, the Company has obtained multi-family entitlements for 9,945 units of which 3,157 units have been constructed as of December 31, 2023. The Company continues to place strategic emphasis on live/work/play environments and in reinvesting in its existing assets, while building shareholder value. This philosophy is exemplified by the Company’s Signature Series TM properties which include key value creation projects in our portfolio that exemplify our transformation and highlight our focus on quality, concentration around core metropolitan statistical areas, and/or growth through redevelopment and development opportunities. Signature Series properties also include fully entitled, shovel-ready mixed-use projects, and opportunities that we continue to identify and entitle as we seek to achieve the highest and best use of our real estate, enhance our communities, and create value for our stakeholders for years to come. The strength and security of the Company’s balance sheet remains central to its strategy. The Company’s strong balance sheet and liquidity position are evidenced by its investment grade unsecured debt ratings (BBB+/Baa1) by two major ratings agencies. The Company maintains one of the longest weighted average debt maturity profiles in the REIT industry, now at 8.7 years. The Company expects to continue to take steps to reduce leverage, unencumber assets and maintain its strong debt coverage metrics as mixed-use projects and redevelopments continue to come online and contribute additional cash flow growth. Business Objective The Company’s primary business objective is to be the premier owner and operator of open-air, grocery-anchored shopping centers, and a growing portfolio of mixed-use assets, in the U.S. The Company believes it can achieve this objective by: 6 Table of Contents Business Strategies The Company believes it is well positioned to achieve sustainable growth, with its strong core portfolio and its recent acquisitions allowing the Company to achieve higher occupancy levels, increased rental rates and rental growth in the future. The Company identified the following components to effectively execute and achieve its strategic goals: The Company has identified the following areas where it is well positioned for sustainable growth in the future. The Company reduces its operating and leasing risks through diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties and a large tenant base. As of December 31, 2023, no single open-air shopping center accounted for more than 1.3% of the Company's annualized base rental revenues, including the proportionate share of base rental revenues from properties in which the Company has less than a 100% economic interest, or more than 1.4% of the Company’s total shopping center GLA. Furthermore, at December 31, 2023, the Company’s single largest tenant represented only 3.7%, and the Company’s five largest tenants aggregated less than 11.3%, of the Company’s annualized base rental revenues, including the proportionate share of base rental revenues from properties in which the Company has less than a 100% economic interest. As one of the original participants in the growth of the shopping center industry and the nation's largest owner and operator of open-air shopping centers, the Company has established close relationships with major national and regional retailers and maintains a broad network of industry contacts. Management is associated with and/or actively participates in many shopping center and REIT industry organizations. Notwithstanding these relationships, there are numerous regional and local commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors who compete with the Company for the acquisition of properties and other investment opportunities and in seeking tenants who will lease space in the Company’s properties. The Company’s executive and senior management teams are seasoned real estate operators with extensive retail and public company leadership experience. The Company’s management has a deep industry knowledge and well-established relationships with retailers, brokers, and vendors through many years of operational and transactional experience, as well as significant capital markets capabilities. The Company believes that management’s expertise, experience, reputation, and key relationships in the retail real estate industry provides it with a significant competitive advantage in attracting new business opportunities. 6 Table of Contents Government Regulation Compliance with various governmental regulations has an impact on our business, including our capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position, which can be material. We incur costs to monitor and take actions to comply with governmental regulations that are applicable to our business, which include, among others, federal securities laws and regulations, applicable stock exchange requirements, REIT and other tax laws and regulations, environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, local zoning, usage and other regulations relating to real property and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. In addition, see Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of material risks to us, including, to the extent material, to our competitive position, relating to governmental regulations, and see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” together with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto for a discussion of material information relevant to an assessment of our financial condition and results of operations, including, to the extent material, the effects that compliance with governmental regulations may have upon our capital expenditures and earnings. Human Capital Resources The Company believes that its associates are one of its strongest resources and that a variety of perspectives and experiences found in its diverse workforce sparks innovation and enriches Company culture. The Company is committed to equitable and inclusive best practices in all phases of the associate life cycle, including recruitment, training, development and promotion. By cultivating high levels of associate satisfaction, management’s goal is to ensure the Company remains a significant driving force in commercial real estate well into the future. The Company has been and will continue to be an equal opportunity employer committed to hiring, developing, and supporting its highly inclusive workplace. The Company takes steps to support its commitment that employment decisions (including how persons are recruited, hired, assigned and promoted) are not made on the basis of any legally protected characteristic. All of our employees must adhere to a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that sets standards for appropriate behavior and includes required, regular internal training on preventing, identifying, reporting and stopping any type of discrimination and/or retaliation. To attract and retain high performing individuals, we are committed to partnering with our associates to provide opportunities for their professional development and promote their health and well-being. We offer a broad range of benefits, and we believe our compensation package and benefits are competitive with others in our industry. Our benefits programs include a robust offering of medical, dental, vision, life, disability and a number of exciting ancillary benefits, all of which require very low associate contributions or are offered at no cost to associates. The Company also provides a Safe Harbor 401(k) program with both pretax and Roth offerings including a robust, fully vested matching contribution. The Company has been recognized as a Great Place to Work® for six consecutive years as well as a One of the 2023 Best Workplaces in Real Estate™, both of which are based on anonymous third-party surveys and feedback collected from our associates. Additionally, the Company was once again designated a Leader in LGBTQ+ Workplace Inclusion having achieved the highest score on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2023-2024 Corporate Equality Index, one of only a few REITs earning the Equality 100 Award. The Company operates under a hybrid work model, which balances associates’ need for valuable face-to-face interactions with individual preferences for ideal work conditions. By continuing to focus on communication, collaboration, and innovation, and by encouraging associates to protect their personal time and be deliberate in where and how they choose to work, management is confident that the model results in a happier, engaged, and more efficient workforce. The Company’s executive and management team promotes a true “open door” environment in which all feedback and suggestions are welcome. Whether it be through regular all employee calls, department meetings, frequent training sessions, Coffee Connections with the executive team, use of our BRAVO recognition program, or participation in our LABS (Leaders Advancing Business Strategy) program, associates are encouraged to be inquisitive and share ideas. Those ideas have resulted in a number of programs and benefit enhancements. The Company promotes physical health, including access to a national gym membership program for associates and their family members as well as host to regular wellness and nutrition seminars and health screenings. The Company also feels it is important that our associates are engaged and active in the community. Across our numerous offices, associates host volunteer and social activities. Whether we’re participating in walks, runs, food or toy drives, the Company promotes and supports associate volunteerism with two volunteer days off per year and a company matching program in support of each associates charitable endeavors. The Company also encourages associates to directly drive strategy around the Company’s environmental, social and governance initiatives through participation in five associate-driven KIMunity Councils focused in the areas of diversity, equity and inclusion, giving, wellness, sustainability, and tenant engagement. 7 Table of Contents The Company recognizes the importance of advanced education and provides funds for scholarship programs to benefit the children of our associates as well as students interested in pursuing careers in real estate. The Company's executive offices are located at 500 North Broadway, Suite 201, Jericho, NY 11753, a mixed-use property that is wholly owned by the Company, and its telephone number is (516) 869-9000 or 1-800-764-7114. Nearly all corporate functions, including legal, data processing, finance and accounting are administered by the Company from its executive offices in Jericho, New York and supported by the Company’s regional offices. As of December 31, 2023, a total of 660 persons were employed by the Company, of which 31% were located in our corporate office with the remainder located in 26 offices throughout the United States. The average tenure of our employees was 9.4 years. Environmental, Social and Governance ( “ ESG ” ) Programs The Company strives to build a thriving and viable business, one that succeeds by delivering long-term value for its stakeholders. We believe that the Company’s ESG programs are aligned with its core business strategy of creating destinations for everyday living that inspire a sense of community and deliver value to its many stakeholders. The Company has identified the following five pillars that outline the Company’s current strategic priorities within our ESG program. The Company has defined 16 ESG goals that expand upon the Company’s commitment with clear targets in each pillar: 8 Table of Contents The Company has aligned its annual reporting towards standards from the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”) and Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”). The Company also discloses aggregate-level EEO-1 workforce data that can be found on the Company’s website, which data and website contents are not incorporated by reference hereto. Additional ESG information of relevance to stakeholders can be found on the Company’s website, the contents of which are not incorporated by reference and do not form a part of this Form 10-K. The Company’s Board of Directors sets the Company’s overall ESG program objectives and oversees enterprise risk management. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the Company’s efforts with regard to the Company’s ESG matters. The Company recognizes that climate change is one of the most significant stakeholder issues of our times, threatening the viability of economic and environmental systems globally. The scientific community has studied climate change and a consensus exists that warming is occurring outside the boundaries of historical planetary trends due in significant part, to human activity. As a real estate portfolio owner, the Company monitors physical and transition risks as well as opportunities posed to its business by climate change and quantifies and discloses the climate impacts of its activities. The Company has established a near-term greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions reduction target of reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions 30% from a 2018 baseline by 2030, and separately has a target of achieving net zero Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2050. Climate risks and opportunities are generally evaluated at both the corporate and individual asset level. The following table summarizes relevant climate risks identified as a part of the Company’s ongoing risk assessment process. The Company may be subject to other climate risks not included below. The Company’s approach in mitigating these risks include but are not limited to (i) carrying additional insurance coverage relating to flooding and windstorms, (ii) maintaining a geographically diversified portfolio, which limits exposure to event driven risks, (iii) creating a form “green lease” for its tenants which incorporates varied criteria that align landlord and tenant sustainability priorities as well as establishing green construction criteria and (iv) implementing emergency preparedness and operational energy and water efficiency programs. In 2020, the Company issued $500.0 million in 2.70% notes due 2030 in its inaugural green bond offering. The net proceeds from this offering are allocated to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, recently completed, existing or future eligible green projects, which projects are to be aligned with the four core components of the Green Bond Principles, 2018 as administered by the International Capital Market Association. Additionally, the Company’s $2.0 billion Credit Facility (as defined below) is a green credit facility which incorporates rate adjustments associated with attainment (or nonattainment) of Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions reductions. 9 Table of Contents Information About Our Executive Officers The following table sets forth information with respect to the executive officers of the Company as of December 31, 2023: Available Information The Company’s website is located at http://www.kimcorealty.com . The information contained on our website does not constitute part of this Form 10-K. On the Company’s website you can obtain, free of charge, a copy of this Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable, after we file such material electronically with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The public may read and obtain a copy of any materials we file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . 10 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to certain business and legal risks including, but not limited to, the following: Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Adverse global market and economic conditions may impede our ability to generate sufficient income and maintain our properties. Our properties consist primarily of open-air shopping centers, including mixed-use assets, and other retail properties. Our performance, therefore, is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. The economic performance and value of our properties is subject to all of the risks associated with owning and operating real estate, including but not limited to: Competition may limit our ability to purchase new properties or generate sufficient income from tenants and may decrease the occupancy and rental rates for our properties. Numerous commercial developers and real estate companies compete with us in seeking tenants for our existing properties and properties for acquisition. Open-air shopping centers, including mixed-use assets, or other retail shopping centers with more convenient locations or better rents may attract tenants or cause them to seek more favorable lease terms at or prior to renewal. Retailers at our properties may face increasing competition from other retailers, e-commerce, outlet malls, discount shopping clubs, telemarketing or home shopping networks, all of which could (i) reduce rents payable to us; (ii) reduce our ability to attract and retain tenants at our properties; or (iii) lead to increased vacancy rates at our properties. We may fail to anticipate the effects of changes in consumer buying practices, particularly of growing online sales and the resulting retailing practices and space needs of our tenants or a general downturn in our tenants’ businesses, which may cause tenants to close stores or default in payment of rent. We face competition in the acquisition or development of real property from others engaged in real estate investment that could increase our costs associated with purchasing and maintaining assets. Some of these competitors may have greater financial resources than we do. This could result in competition for the acquisition of properties for tenants who lease or consider leasing space in our existing and subsequently acquired properties and for other investment or development opportunities. Our performance depends on our ability to collect rent from tenants, including anchor tenants, our tenants ’ financial condition and our tenants maintaining leases for our properties. At any time, our tenants may experience a downturn in their business that may significantly weaken their financial condition. As a result, our tenants may delay a number of lease commencements, decline to extend or renew leases upon expiration, fail to make rental payments when due, close stores or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of tenants’ leases and the loss of rental income attributable to these tenants’ leases. In the event of a default by a tenant, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord under the terms of the leases. 11 Table of Contents In addition, multiple lease terminations by tenants, including anchor tenants, or a failure by multiple tenants to occupy their premises in a shopping center could result in lease terminations or significant reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping centers under the terms of some leases. In that event, we may be unable to re-lease the vacated space at attractive rents or at all, and our rental payments from our continuing tenants could significantly decrease. The occurrence of any of the situations described above, particularly involving a substantial tenant with leases in multiple locations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A tenant that files for bankruptcy protection may not continue to pay us rent. A bankruptcy filing by, or relating to, one of our tenants or a lease guarantor would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from the tenant or the lease guarantor, or their property, unless the bankruptcy court permits us to do so. A tenant bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. As a result, it is likely that we would recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold, if at all. The success of our tenants in operating their businesses and their corresponding ability to pay us rent continue to be significantly impacted by many current economic challenges, which impact the performance of their businesses, including, but not limited to, inflation, labor shortages, supply chain constraints, decreasing consumer confidence and discretionary spending, and increasing energy prices and interest rates. E-commerce and other changes in consumer buying practices present challenges for many of our tenants and may require us to modify our properties, diversify our tenant composition and adapt our leasing practices to remain competitive. Many of our tenants face increasing competition from e-commerce and other sources that could cause them to reduce their size, limit the number of locations and/or suffer a general downturn in their businesses and ability to pay rent. We may also fail to anticipate the effects of changes in consumer buying practices, particularly of growing online sales and the resulting change in retailing practices and space needs of our tenants, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We are focused on anchoring and diversifying our properties with tenants that are more resistant to competition from e-commerce (e.g., groceries, essential retailers, restaurants and service providers), but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in modifying our properties, diversifying our tenant composition and/or adapting our leasing practices. Our expenses may remain constant or increase, even if income from our Combined Shopping Center Portfolio decreases, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Costs associated with our business, such as common area expenses, utilities, insurance, real estate taxes, mortgage payments, and corporate expenses are relatively inflexible and generally do not decrease in the event that a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease, a tenant fails to pay rent or other circumstances cause our revenues to decrease. In addition, inflation could result in higher operating costs. If we are unable to lower our operating costs when revenues decline and/or are unable to pass along cost increases to our tenants, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. We may be unable to sell our real estate property investments when appropriate or on terms favorable to us. Real estate property investments are illiquid and generally cannot be disposed of quickly. The capitalization rates at which properties may be sold could be higher than historic rates, thereby reducing our potential proceeds from sale. In addition, the Code includes certain restrictions on a REIT’s ability to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. Therefore, we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to economic or other conditions promptly or on terms favorable to us within a time frame that we would need. All of these factors reduce our ability to respond to changes in the performance of our investments and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain properties we own have a low tax basis, which may result in a taxable gain on sale. We may utilize like-kind exchanges qualifying under Section 1031 of the Code (“1031 Exchanges”) to mitigate taxable income; however, there can be no assurance that we will identify properties that meet our investment objectives for acquisitions. In the event that we do not utilize 1031 Exchanges, we may be required to distribute the gain proceeds to shareholders or pay income tax, which may reduce our cash flow available to fund our commitments. We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies, and this may create risks. We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies when we believe that an acquisition or development is consistent with our business strategies. We may not succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time or within budget. When we do pursue a project or acquisition, we may not succeed in leasing newly developed or acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover the costs of acquisition or development and operations. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from other activities. Acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in poorer than anticipated performance. We may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that management has begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred and will have devoted management’s time to a matter not consummated. Furthermore, our acquisitions of new properties or companies will expose us to the liabilities of those properties or companies, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of the acquisition. In addition, development of our existing properties presents similar risks. 12 Table of Contents Newly acquired or re-developed properties may have characteristics or deficiencies currently unknown to us that affect their value or revenue potential. It is also possible that the operating performance of these properties may decline under our management. As we acquire additional properties, we will be subject to risks associated with managing new properties, including lease-up and tenant retention. In addition, our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to successfully integrate our new acquisitions into our existing management structure. We may not succeed with this integration or effectively manage additional properties, particularly in secondary markets. Also, newly acquired properties may not perform as expected. We face risks associated with the development of mixed-use commercial properties. We operate, are currently developing, and may in the future develop, properties either alone or through joint ventures with other persons that are known as “mixed-use” developments. This means that, in addition to the development of retail space, the project may also include space for residential, office, hotel or other commercial purposes. We have less experience in developing and managing non-retail real estate than we do with retail real estate. As a result, if a development project includes a non-retail use, we may seek to develop that component ourselves, sell the rights to that component to a third-party developer with experience developing properties for such use or partner with such a developer. If we do not sell the rights or partner with such a developer, or if we choose to develop the other component ourselves, we would be exposed not only to those risks typically associated with the development of commercial real estate generally, but also to specific risks associated with the development and ownership of non-retail real estate. In addition, even if we sell the rights to develop the other component or elect to participate in the development through a joint venture, we may be exposed to the risks associated with the failure of the other party to complete the development as expected. These include the risk that the other party would default on its obligations necessitating that we complete the other component ourselves, including providing any necessary financing. In the case of residential properties, these risks include competition for prospective residents from other operators whose properties may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may be perceived as a better value given the quality, location and amenities that the resident seeks. We will also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent. In the case of office properties, the risks also include changes in space utilization by tenants due to technology, economic conditions and business culture, declines in financial condition of these tenants and competition for credit worthy office tenants. In the case of hotel properties, the risks also include increases in inflation and utilities that may not be offset by increases in room rates. We are also dependent on business and commercial travelers and tourism. Because we have less experience with residential, office and hotel properties than with retail properties, we expect to retain third parties to manage our residential and other non-retail components as deemed warranted. If we decide to not sell or participate in a joint venture and instead hire a third-party manager, we would be dependent on them and their key personnel who provide services to us, and we may not find a suitable replacement if the management agreement is terminated, or if key personnel leave or otherwise become unavailable to us. Construction projects are subject to risks that materially increase the costs of completion. In the event that we decide to redevelop existing properties, we will be subject to risks and uncertainties associated with construction and development. These risks include, but are not limited to, risks related to obtaining all necessary zoning, land-use, building occupancy and other governmental permits and authorizations, risks related to the environmental concerns of government entities or community groups, risks related to changes in economic and market conditions, especially in an inflationary environment, between development commencement and stabilization, risks related to construction labor disruptions, adverse weather, acts of God or shortages of materials and labor which could cause construction delays and risks related to increases in the cost of labor and materials which could cause construction costs to be greater than projected and adversely impact the amount of our development fees or our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Supply chain disruptions and unexpected construction expenses and delays could impact our ability to timely deliver spaces to tenants and/or our ability to achieve the expected value of a construction project or lease, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. The construction and building industry, similar to many other industries, is experiencing worldwide supply chain disruptions due to a multitude of factors that are beyond our control. Materials, parts and labor have also increased in cost over the past year or more, sometimes significantly and over a short period of time. We may incur costs for a property renovation or tenant buildout that exceeds our original estimates due to increased costs for materials or labor or other costs that are unexpected. We also may be unable to complete renovation of a property or tenant space on schedule due to supply chain disruptions or labor shortages, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs. Additionally, some tenants may have the right to terminate their leases if a renovation project is not completed on time. The time frame required to recoup our renovation and construction costs and to realize a return on such costs can often be significant and materially adversely affect our profitability. The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 could require us to take remedial steps with respect to existing or newly acquired properties. Our existing properties, as well as properties we may acquire, as commercial facilities, are required to comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the “ADA”). Investigation of a property may reveal non-compliance with the ADA. The requirements of the ADA, or of other federal, state or local laws or regulations, also may change in the future and restrict further renovations of our properties with respect to access for disabled persons. Future compliance with the ADA may require expensive changes to the properties. 13 Table of Contents We do not have exclusive control over our joint venture and preferred equity investments, such that we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. We have invested in some properties as a co-venturer or a partner, instead of owning directly. In these investments, we do not have exclusive control over the development, financing, leasing, management and other aspects of these investments. As a result, the co-venturer or partner might have interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, take action contrary to our interests or otherwise impede our objectives. These investments involve risks and uncertainties. The co-venturer or partner may fail to provide capital or fulfill its obligations, which may result in certain liabilities to us for guarantees and other commitments. Conflicts arising between us and our partners may be difficult to manage and/or resolve and it could be difficult to manage or otherwise monitor the existing business arrangements. The co-venturer or partner also might become insolvent or bankrupt, which may result in significant losses to us. In addition, joint venture arrangements may decrease our ability to manage risk and implicate additional risks, such as: Our joint venture and preferred equity investments generally own real estate properties for which the economic performance and value are subject to all the risks associated with owning and operating real estate as described above. We may not be able to recover our investments in marketable securities, mortgage receivables or other investments, which may result in significant losses to us. Our investments in marketable securities are subject to specific risks relating to the particular issuer of the securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer, which may result in significant losses to us. Marketable securities are generally unsecured and may also be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer. As a result, investments in marketable securities are subject to risks of: These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding marketable securities and the ability of the issuers to make distribution payments. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Footnotes 8 and 28 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for additional discussion regarding the shares held by the Company of Albertsons Companies, Inc. (“ACI”). Our investments in mortgage receivables are subject to specific risks relating to the borrower and the underlying property. In the event of a default by a borrower, it may be necessary for us to foreclose our mortgage or engage in costly negotiations. Delays in liquidating defaulted mortgage loans and repossessing and selling the underlying properties could reduce our investment returns. Furthermore, in the event of default, the actual value of the property collateralizing the mortgage may decrease. A decline in real estate values will adversely affect the value of our loans and the value of the properties collateralizing our loans. Our mortgage receivables may be or become subordinated to mechanics' or materialmen's liens or property tax liens. In these instances, we may need to protect a particular investment by making payments to maintain the current status of a prior lien or discharge it entirely. Where that occurs, the total amount we recover may be less than our total investment, resulting in a loss. In the event of a major loan default or several loan defaults resulting in losses, our investments in mortgage receivables would be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents The economic performance and value of our other investments, which we do not control, are subject to risks associated with owning and operating retail businesses, including: A decline in the value of our other investments may require us to recognize an other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) against such assets. When the fair value of an investment is determined to be less than its amortized cost at the balance sheet date, we assess whether the decline is temporary or other-than-temporary. If we intend to sell an impaired asset, or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the impaired asset before any anticipated recovery, then we must recognize an OTTI through charges to earnings equal to the entire difference between the asset’s amortized cost and its fair value at the balance sheet date. When an OTTI is recognized through earnings, a new cost basis is established for the asset, and the new cost basis may not be adjusted through earnings for subsequent recoveries in fair value. Our real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges. We periodically assess whether there are any indicators that the value of our real estate assets and other investments may be impaired. A property’s value is considered to be impaired only if the estimated aggregate future undiscounted property cash flows are less than the carrying value of the property. In our estimate of cash flows, we consider factors such as trends and prospects and the effects of demand and competition on expected future operating income. If we are evaluating the potential sale of an asset or redevelopment alternatives, the undiscounted future cash flows consider the most likely course of action as of the balance sheet date based on current plans, intended holding periods and available market information. We are required to make subjective assessments as to whether there are impairments in the value of our real estate assets and other investments. Impairment charges have an immediate direct impact on our earnings. There can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets. Any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the charge is taken. We intend to continue to sell our lesser quality assets and may not be able to recover our investments, which may result in significant losses to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recover the current carrying amount of all of our lesser quality properties and investments and those of our unconsolidated joint ventures in the future. Our failure to do so would require us to recognize impairment charges for the period in which we reached that conclusion, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have completed our efforts to exit Mexico, Chile, Brazil, Peru and Canada, however, we cannot predict the impact of laws and regulations affecting these international operations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the potential that we may face regulatory sanctions. Our international operations have included properties in Mexico, Chile, Brazil, Peru and Canada and are subject to a variety of United States and foreign laws and regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and foreign tax laws and regulations. Although we have completed our efforts to exit our investments in Mexico, South America and Canada, we cannot assure you that our past practices will continue to be found to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. In addition, we cannot predict the manner in which such laws or regulations might be administered or interpreted, or when, or the potential that we may face regulatory sanctions or tax audits as a result of our international operations. We have experienced cybersecurity attacks and could in the future be subject to significant disruption, data loss or other security incidents or breaches. Our information technology (“IT”) networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants. While we maintain some of our own critical IT networks and related systems, we also depend on third parties to provide important software, technologies, tools and a broad array of services and operational functions, including payroll, human resources, electronic communications and finance functions. In the ordinary course of our business, we and our third-party service providers collect, process, transmit and store sensitive information and data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information. 15 Table of Contents We, and our third-party service providers like all businesses, are subject to cyberattacks and security incidents, which threaten the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our systems and information resources. Those attacks and incidents may be due to intentional or unintentional acts by employees, customers, contractors or third parties, who seek to gain unauthorized access to our or our service providers’ systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential or personal information through malware, computer viruses, ransomware, software or hardware vulnerabilities, social engineering (e.g., phishing attachments to e-mails) or other vectors. The risk of a cybersecurity attack, breach or operational disruption, particularly through a cyber incident, including by computer hackers, foreign governments or cyber terrorists, has generally increased. Attack methodologies change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and we may be unable to investigate or remediate incidents because attackers increasingly use techniques and tools, including artificial intelligence, that circumvent controls, avoid detection, and remove obscure forensic evidence. There can be no assurance that our cybersecurity risk management program, security controls and security process, or those of our third-party services providers will be fully implemented, complied with, or effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. We have in the past experienced adverse events that have not resulted, and are not expected to result, in a material impact on the Company’s business operations or financial results. For example, in February 2023, the Company experienced a criminal ransomware attack affecting data contained on legacy servers of Weingarten Realty Investors (“WRI”). The Company acquired WRI in August 2021. The affected servers and exfiltrated data were on the WRI network. The WRI network is separate and is not connected to the Company’s network. The Company promptly initiated an investigation and its response protocols, including deploying containment measures such as taking affected systems offline, implementing enhanced monitoring technology and data recovery processes. The Company also notified federal law enforcement, engaged the services of cybersecurity and forensics professionals, and restored affected systems. The WRI network data is historical and stored for archival purposes. We have acquired in the past and may acquire in the future companies with cybersecurity vulnerabilities or unsophisticated security measures, which could expose us to significant cybersecurity, operational, and financial risks. A cyber incident could materially affect our operations and financial condition by: The occurrence or perception of a cyberattack or security incident could result in operational interruption, damage to our relationship with our tenants, and confidential data exposure. In addition, federal and state governments and agencies have enacted, and continue to develop, broad data protection legislation, regulations, and guidance that require companies to increasingly implement, monitor and enforce reasonable cybersecurity measures. These governmental entities and agencies are aggressively investigating and enforcing such legislation, regulations and guidance across industry sectors and companies. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to address an attack or incident, including those as a result of the February 2023 incident involving the WRI legacy servers, and our insurance may not cover some or all of our losses resulting from an attack or incident. These losses may include payments for investigations, forensic analyses, legal advice, public relations advice, system repair or replacement, or other services, in addition to any remedies or relief that may result from legal proceedings. The incurrence of these losses, costs or business interruptions may adversely affect our reputation as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Artificial intelligence presents risks and challenges that can impact our business, including by posing security risks to our confidential information, proprietary information, and personal data. Issues in the development and use of artificial intelligence, combined with an uncertain regulatory environment, may result in reputational harm, liability, or other adverse consequences to our business operations. As with many technological innovations, artificial intelligence presents risks and challenges that could impact our business. We have adopted generative artificial intelligence tools into our systems for specific use cases reviewed by legal and information security. Our vendors may incorporate generative artificial intelligence tools into their services and deliverables without disclosing this use to us, and the providers of these generative artificial intelligence tools may not meet existing or rapidly evolving regulatory or industry standards with respect to privacy and data protection and may inhibit our or our vendors’ ability to maintain an adequate level of service and experience. If we, our vendors, or our third-party partners experience an actual or perceived breach or a privacy or security incident because of the use of generative artificial intelligence, we may lose valuable intellectual property and confidential information, and our reputation and the public perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed. Further, bad actors around the world use increasingly sophisticated methods, including the use of artificial intelligence, to engage in illegal activities involving the theft and misuse of personal information, confidential information, and intellectual property. Any of these outcomes could damage our reputation, result in the loss of valuable property and information, and adversely impact our business. We may be subject to liability under environmental laws, ordinances and regulations. Under various federal, state, and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be considered an owner or operator of real property and may be responsible for paying for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances released on or in our property, as well as certain other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property). This liability may be imposed whether or not we knew about, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The Company has environmental insurance coverage on certain of its properties, however this coverage may not be sufficient to cover any or all expenses associated with the aforementioned risks. 16 Table of Contents Natural disasters, severe weather conditions and the effects of climate change could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations are located in areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes, snowstorms, floods and fires, and the frequency of these natural disasters and severe weather conditions may increase due to climate change. The occurrence of natural disasters, severe weather conditions and the effects of climate change, including extreme temperatures changes to meteorological or hydrological patterns, can delay new development or redevelopment projects, decrease the attractiveness of locations, increase investment costs to repair or replace damaged properties (or make repair or replacement impossible), increase operation costs, including the cost of energy at our properties, increase costs for future property insurance, negatively impact the tenant demand for lease space and cause substantial damages or losses to our properties which could exceed any applicable insurance coverage. The incurrence of any of these losses, costs or business interruptions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We anticipate the potential effects of climate change will increasingly impact the decisions and analysis we make with respect to our properties, since climate change considerations can impact the relative desirability of locations and the cost of operating and insuring real estate properties. In addition, changes in government legislation and regulation on climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our existing properties and could also require us to spend more on our development or redevelopment projects without a corresponding increase in revenues, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Transition impacts of climate change may subject us to increased regulations, reporting requirements (such as the SEC’s proposed climate change disclosure rule), standards, or expectations regarding the environmental impacts of our or our tenants’ business. Failure to disclose accurate information in a timely manner may also adversely affect our reputation, business, or financial performance. For more information on potential climate-related risks, please refer to our disclosures title “Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) Programs” above. Pandemics or other health crises may adversely affect our tenants ’ financial condition and the profitability of our properties. Our business and the businesses of our tenants could be materially and adversely affected by the risks, or the public perception of the risks, related to a pandemic or other health crisis, such as the outbreak of novel coronavirus (COVID-19). Such events could result in the complete or partial closure of one or more of our tenants’ manufacturing facilities or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in our tenants’ supply chains from local and international suppliers, and /or delays in the delivery of our tenants’ inventory. The profitability of our properties depends, in part, on the willingness of customers to visit our tenants’ businesses. The risk, or public perception of the risk, of a pandemic or media coverage of infectious diseases could cause employees or customers to avoid our properties, which could adversely affect foot traffic to our tenants’ businesses and our tenants’ ability to adequately staff their businesses. Such events could adversely impact tenants’ sales and/or cause the temporary closure of our tenants’ businesses, which could severely disrupt their operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Financial disruption or a prolonged economic downturn could materially and adversely affect the Company ’ s business. Worldwide financial markets have recently experienced periods of extraordinary disruption and volatility, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of investments and decreased economic activity. Moreover, many companies have experienced reduced liquidity and uncertainty as to their ability to raise capital during such periods of market disruption and volatility. In the event that these conditions recur or result in a prolonged economic downturn, our results of operations, financial position or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. These market conditions may affect the Company's ability to access debt and equity capital markets. In addition, as a result of recent financial events, we may face increased regulation. Corporate responsibility, specifically related to ESG factors and commitments, imposes additional costs and expose us to new risks. Sustainability evaluation is becoming more broadly accepted or expected by investors and shareholders. Certain organizations that provide corporate governance and other corporate risk information to investors and shareholders have developed scores and ratings to evaluate companies and investment funds based upon ESG or “sustainability” metrics. Many investment funds focus on positive ESG business practices and sustainability scores when making investments and may consider a company’s sustainability score as a reputational or other factor in making an investment decision. In addition, investors, particularly institutional investors, use these scores to benchmark companies against their peers and if a company is perceived as lagging, these investors may engage with companies to require improved ESG disclosure or performance. We may face reputational damage or additional costs in the event our corporate responsibility procedures or standards do not meet the standards set by various constituencies. In addition, the criteria by which companies are rated may change, which could cause us to receive lower scores than previous years. A low sustainability score could result in a negative perception of the Company, or exclusion of our common stock from consideration by certain investors who may elect to invest with our competition instead. In addition, as part of our corporate responsibility, we have adopted certain ESG goals, including greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets and other sustainability initiatives. If we cannot not meet these goals fully or on time, we may face reputational damage. Simultaneously, there are efforts by some parties to restrict companies’ efforts on various ESG-related matters. Both advocates and opponents to certain ESG matters are increasingly resorting to a range of activism forms, including media campaigns and litigation, to advance their perspectives. To the extent we are subject to such activism, it may require us to incur costs or otherwise adversely impact our business. 17 Table of Contents Moreover, while we may create and publish voluntary disclosures regarding ESG matters from time to time, many of the statements in those voluntary disclosures are based on hypothetical expectations and assumptions that may or may not be representative of current or actual risks or events or forecasts of expected risks or events, including the costs associated therewith. Such expectations and assumptions are necessarily uncertain and may be prone to error or subject to misinterpretation given the long timelines involved and the lack of an established single approach to identifying, measuring and reporting on many ESG matters. For example, we note that standards regarding the monitoring and accounting of GHG emissions, as well as any GHG emissions reductions, continues to evolve, and our disclosures on such matters may continue to evolve as well, though we cannot guarantee our disclosures will always be perceived as in keeping with particular best practices. Such disclosures may also be at least partially reliant on third-party information that we have not independently verified or cannot be independently verified. In addition, we expect there will likely be increasing levels of regulation, disclosure-related and otherwise, with respect to ESG matters, and increased regulation will likely lead to increased compliance costs as well as scrutiny that could heighten all of the risks identified in this risk factor. Such ESG matters may also impact our suppliers or customers, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our success depends largely on the continued service and availability of key personnel. We depend on the deep industry knowledge and efforts of key personnel, including our executive officers, to manage our day-to-day operations and strategic business direction. Our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel may significantly impact our future performance, and if any of our executive officers or other key personnel depart the Company, for any reason, we may not be able to easily replace such individual. The loss of the services of our executive officers and other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Retail operating conditions may adversely affect our results of operations. A retail property’s revenues and value may be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which apply to real estate investment generally, but which also include trends in the retail industry and perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the retail property. Our retail properties are public locations, and any incidents of crime or violence, including acts of terrorism, could result in a reduction of business traffic to tenant stores in our properties. Any such incidents may also expose us to civil liability or harm our reputation. In addition, to the extent that the investing public has a negative perception of the retail sector, the value of our retail properties may be negatively impacted. Our Umbrella Partnership Real Estate Investment Trust ( “ UPREIT ” ) structure may result in potential conflicts of interest with members of Kimco OP, whose interests may not be aligned with those of our stockholders. Our directors and officers have duties to our corporation and our stockholders under Maryland law in connection with their management of the corporation. At the same time, we, as managing member of Kimco OP, our operating company, have fiduciary duties under Delaware law to our operating company and to its members in connection with the management of our operating company. Our duties as managing member of our operating company and to its members may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to the corporation and our stockholders. While the operating agreement contains provisions limiting the fiduciary duties of the managing member to the operating company and its members, the provisions of Delaware law that allow for such limitations have not been fully tested in a court of law. Risks Related to Our Debt and Equity Securities We may be unable to obtain financing through the debt and equity markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, our financial condition and our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to access the credit and/or equity markets to obtain additional debt or equity financing or that we will be able to obtain financing on terms favorable to us. The inability to obtain financing on a timely basis could have negative effects on our business, such as: Adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on terms favorable to us, if at all, and could significantly reduce the market price of our publicly traded securities. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to financial covenants that may restrict our operating and acquisition activities. Our Credit Facility, bank term loans and the indentures under which our senior unsecured debt is issued contain certain financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, certain coverage ratios and limitations on our ability to incur debt, make dividend payments, sell all or substantially all of our assets and engage in mergers and consolidations and certain acquisitions. These covenants may restrict our ability to pursue certain business initiatives or certain acquisition transactions that might otherwise be advantageous. In addition, failure to meet any of the financial covenants could cause an event of default under our Credit Facility, bank term loans and the indentures and/or accelerate some or all of our indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on us. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and may need to incur more indebtedness in the future. We have substantial indebtedness. The level of indebtedness could have adverse consequences on our business, such as: The impact of any of these potential adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. We are exposed to interest rate risk, and there can be no assurance that we will manage or mitigate this risk effectively. We are exposed to interest rate risk, primarily through our unsecured revolving credit facility. Borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility bear interest at a floating rate, and as a result an increase in interest rates will increase the amount of interest we must pay. Our interest rate risk may materially change in the future if we increase our borrowings under this facility. A significant increase in interest rates could also make it more difficult to find alternative financing on desirable terms. Increases in interest rates on any of our variable-rate debt would result in an increase in interest expense, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. For additional information with respect to interest rate risk, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this Form 10-K. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our publicly traded securities. The market price of our publicly traded securities depends on various market conditions, which may change from time-to-time. Among the market conditions that may affect the market price of our publicly traded securities are the following: We may change the dividend policy for our common stock in the future. The decision to declare and pay dividends on our common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, operating cash flows, liquidity, financial condition, capital requirements, contractual prohibitions or other limitations under our indebtedness including preferred stock, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code, state law and such other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant or are requirements under the Code or state or federal laws. Any negative change in our dividend policy could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents Our charter and bylaws and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction, even if such a change in control may be in our best interest, and as a result may depress the market price of our securities. Our charter contains certain ownership limits. Our charter contains various provisions that are intended to preserve our qualification as a REIT and, subject to certain exceptions, authorize our directors to take such actions as are necessary or appropriate to preserve our qualification as a REIT . For example, our charter prohibits the actual, beneficial or constructive ownership by any person of more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate outstanding shares of all classes and series of our stock. Our Board of Directors, in its sole and absolute discretion, may exempt a person, prospectively or retroactively, from these ownership limits if certain conditions are satisfied. The restrictions on ownership and transfer of our stock may: Risks Related to Our Status as a REIT and Related U.S. Federal Income Tax Matters Loss of our tax status as a REIT or changes in U.S. federal income tax laws, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions relating to REITs could have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our securities. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Code. We believe that we are organized and operate in a manner that has allowed us to qualify and will allow us to remain qualified as a REIT under the Code. However, there can be no assurance that we have qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) and U.S. Department of the Treasury. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. New legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT, the U.S. federal income tax consequences of such qualification or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the ownership of our stock, the composition of our assets and the sources of our gross income. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. Furthermore, we own a direct or indirect interest in certain subsidiary REITs which have elected to be taxed as REITs for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Code. Provided that each subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT, our interest in such subsidiary REIT will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests. To qualify as a REIT, the subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements. The failure of a subsidiary REIT to qualify as a REIT could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a REIT. If we were to lose our REIT status, we would face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available to pay distributions to stockholders for each of the years involved because: Our failure to qualify as a REIT or new legislation or changes in U.S. federal income tax laws, including with respect to qualification as a REIT or the tax consequences of such qualification, could also impair our ability to expand our business or raise capital and have a materially adverse effect on the value of our securities. 20 Table of Contents To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions, and the unavailability of such capital on favorable terms at the desired times, or at all, may cause us to curtail our investment activities and/or to dispose of assets at inopportune times, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and per share trading price of our common stock. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income each year, excluding net capital gains, and we will be subject to regular U.S. federal corporate income taxes on the amount we distribute that is less than 100% of our net taxable income each year, including capital gains. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. While we have historically satisfied these distribution requirements by making cash distributions to our stockholders, a REIT is permitted to satisfy these requirements by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its own stock. Assuming we continue to satisfy these distribution requirements with cash, we may need to borrow funds to meet the REIT distribution requirements and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of cash reserves or required debt or amortization payments. These sources, however, may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of factors, including the market's perception of our growth potential, our current debt levels, the market price of our common stock, and our current and potential future earnings. We cannot assure you that we will have access to such capital on favorable terms at the desired times, or at all, which may cause us to curtail our investment activities and/or to dispose of assets at inopportune times, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and per share trading price of our common stock. If Kimco OP were to fail to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the Parent Company would fail to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that after the RPT Merger, Kimco OP has been organized and operated in a manner that allows it to be treated as a partnership, and not an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation, for federal income tax purposes. As an entity treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, Kimco OP is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including the Parent Company, is allocated, and may be required to pay tax with respect to, that partner’s share of Kimco OP’s income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS will not challenge Kimco OP’s status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating Kimco OP as an association or publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, the Parent Company would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, would cease to qualify as a REIT. Such REIT qualification failure could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would materially adversely affect the value of the Parent Company’s stock and the OP Units. Also, the failure of Kimco OP to qualify as a partnership would cause it to become subject to federal corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of its cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including the Parent Company. Tax liabilities and attributes inherited in connection with acquisitions may adversely impact our business. From time to time we may acquire other corporations or entities and, in connection with such acquisitions, we may succeed to the historic tax attributes and liabilities of such entities. For example, if we acquire a C corporation and subsequently dispose of its assets within five years of the acquisition, we could be required to pay tax on any built-in gain attributable to such assets determined as of the date on which we acquired the assets. In addition, in order to qualify as a REIT, at the end of any taxable year, we must not have any earnings and profits accumulated in a non-REIT year. As a result, if we acquire a C corporation, we must distribute the corporation’s earnings and profits accumulated prior to the acquisition before the end of the taxable year in which we acquire the corporation. We also could be required to pay the acquired entity’s unpaid taxes even though such liabilities arose prior to the time we acquired the entity. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in “ prohibited transactions ” may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business, unless a sale or disposition qualifies under certain statutory safe harbors, or is held through a taxable REIT subsidiary, such characterization is a factual determination and no guarantee can be given that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties or that we will always be able to make use of the available safe harbors. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to “qualified dividend income” payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for these reduced rates. U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates generally may deduct up to 20% of the ordinary dividends (i.e., dividends not designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income) received from a REIT for taxable years beginning before January 1, 2026. Although this deduction reduces the effective tax rate applicable to certain dividends paid by REITs (generally to 29.6% assuming the shareholder is subject to the 37% maximum rate), such tax rate is still higher than the tax rate applicable to corporate dividends that constitute qualified dividend income. Accordingly, investors who are individuals, trusts and estates may perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends treated as qualified dividend income, which could materially and adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including the per share trading price of our common stock. Risks Relating to the Company after Completion of the RPT Merger We expect to incur substantial expenses related to the RPT Merger. We expect to incur substantial expenses in completing the RPT Merger and integrating the business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures of the Company and RPT. There are a large number of processes that must be integrated in the RPT Merger, including leasing, billing, management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll and benefits, fixed asset, lease administration and regulatory compliance. While we have assumed that a certain level of transaction and integration expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of such integration expenses. Our stockholders were diluted by the RPT Merger and the trading price of shares of the combined company may be affected by factors different from those affecting the price of shares of our common stock before the RPT Merger. The RPT Merger diluted the ownership position of our stockholders. After completion of the RPT Merger, our legacy stockholders own approximately 92% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, and legacy RPT stockholders own approximately 8% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. Consequently, our stockholders have somewhat less influence over our management and policies after the RPT Merger than they previously exercised. The results of our operations and the trading price of our common stock after the RPT Merger may also be affected by factors different from those previously affecting our results of operations and the trading prices of our common stock. For example, some of our and RPT’s prior institutional investors may elect to decrease their ownership in the combined company. Accordingly, the historical trading prices and financial results of the Company and RPT may not be indicative of trading prices and financial results of the combined company after the RPT Merger. 21 Table of Contents Following the RPT Merger, we may be unable to integrate the business of RPT successfully or realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits of the RPT Merger or do so within the anticipated time frame. The RPT Merger involves the combination of two companies, which previously operated as independent public companies, and requires significant management attention and resources. Potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include: For all these reasons, you should be aware that it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in our services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect the ability of the Company to maintain relationships with tenants, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated future opportunities, plans and benefits of the RPT Merger, or could otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Following the RPT Merger, we have a substantial amount of indebtedness and may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Following the RPT Merger, we have a substantial amount of indebtedness and may need to incur additional indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness and the incurrence of new indebtedness could have adverse consequences on our business following the RPT Merger, such as: The impact of any of these potential adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Counterparties to certain agreements with RPT may exercise their contractual rights under such agreements in connection with the RPT Merger. RPT is party to certain agreements that give the counterparty certain rights following a “change in control,” including in some cases the right to terminate such agreements. Under some such agreements, for example certain debt obligations, the RPT Merger constitutes a change in control and therefore the counterparty may exercise certain rights under the agreement upon the closing of the RPT Merger. Any such counterparty may request modifications of its respective agreements as a condition to granting a waiver or consent under its agreement. There is no assurance that such counterparties will not exercise their rights under such agreements, including termination rights where available, that the exercise of any such rights will not result in a material adverse effect or that any modifications of such agreements will not result in a material adverse effect to the combined company or its securities subsequent to the RPT Merger. 22 Table of Contents