” of this annual report. The forward-looking statements included here are only made as of the date of this report, and management undertakes no obligation to publicly update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as may be required by law. Investors are cautioned not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented here. Item 1. Business. IDEX Corporation (“IDEX,” the “Company,” “us,” “our,” or “we”) is a Delaware corporation incorporated on September 24, 1987. The Company is an applied solutions business that sells an extensive array of pumps, valves, flow meters and other fluidics systems and components and engineered products to customers in a variety of markets around the world. All of the Company’s business activities are carried out through wholly-owned subsidiaries. The Company has three reportable business segments: Fluid & Metering Technologies (“FMT”), Health & Science Technologies (“HST”) and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products (“FSDP”). Within our three reportable segments, the Company maintains 13 platforms, where we focus on organic growth and strategic acquisitions. Each of our 13 platforms is also a reporting unit that we annually test for goodwill impairment. 1 Table of Contents The FMT segment contains the Energy platform (comprised of Corken, Liquid Controls, SAMPI and Toptech), the Valves platform (comprised of Alfa Valvole, Richter and Aegis), the Water platform (comprised of Pulsafeeder, OBL, Knight, ADS, Trebor and iPEK), the Pumps platform (comprised of Viking and Warren Rupp) and the Agriculture platform (comprised of Banjo). The HST segment contains the Scientific Fluidics & Optics platform (comprised of Eastern Plastics, Rheodyne, Sapphire Engineering, Upchurch Scientific, ERC, CiDRA Precision Services, thinXXS Microtechnology (“thinXXS”), CVI Melles Griot, Semrock, AT Films and Finger Lakes Instrumentation (“FLI”)), the Sealing Solutions platform (comprised of Precision Polymer Engineering, FTL Seals Technology, Novotema, SFC Koenig and Velcora Holding AB (“Velcora”)), the Gast platform, the Micropump platform and the Material Processing Technologies platform (comprised of Quadro, Fitzpatrick, Microfluidics and Matcon). The FSDP segment is comprised of the Fire & Safety platform (comprised of Class 1, Hale, Godiva, Akron Brass, Weldon, AWG Fittings, Dinglee, Hurst Jaws of Life, Lukas and Vetter), the Band-It platform and the Dispensing platform. IDEX believes that each of its reporting units is a leader in its product and service areas. The Company also believes that its strong financial performance has been attributable to its ability to design and engineer specialized quality products, coupled with its ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate strategic acquisitions. FLUID & METERING TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT The Fluid & Metering Technologies segment designs, produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, flow meters, injectors and other fluid-handling pump modules and systems and provides flow monitoring and other services for the food, chemical, general industrial, water and wastewater, agriculture and energy industries. Fluid & Metering Technologies application-specific pump and metering solutions serve a diverse range of end markets, including industrial infrastructure (fossil fuels, refined and alternative fuels and water and wastewater), chemical processing, agriculture, food and beverage, pulp and paper, transportation, plastics and resins, electronics and electrical, construction and mining, pharmaceutical and bio-pharmaceutical, machinery and numerous other specialty niche markets. 2 Table of Contents Fluid & Metering Technologies accounted for 38% of IDEX’s sales in each of 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively, with approximately 43% of its 2019 sales to customers outside the U.S. The segment accounted for 44% , 42% and 42% of total segment operating income in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Energy. Energy consists of the Company’s Corken, Liquid Controls, SAMPI and Toptech businesses. Energy is a leading supplier of flow meters, electronic registration and control products, rotary vane and turbine pumps, reciprocating piston compressors and terminal automation control systems. Applications for Liquid Controls and SAMPI consist of positive displacement flow meters and electronic registration and control products, including mobile and stationary metering installations for wholesale and retail distribution of petroleum and liquefied petroleum gas, aviation refueling and industrial metering and dispensing of liquids and gases. Corken products consist of positive-displacement rotary vane pumps, single and multistage regenerative turbine pumps and small horsepower reciprocating piston compressors. Toptech supplies terminal automation hardware and software to control and manage inventories as well as transactional data and invoicing to customers in the oil, gas and refined-fuels markets. Energy maintains facilities in Lake Bluff, Illinois (Liquid Controls products); Longwood, Florida and Zwijndrecht, Belgium (Toptech products); Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (Corken products); and Altopascio, Italy (SAMPI products). Approximately 44% of Energy’s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Valves. Valves consists of the Company’s Alfa Valvole, Richter and Aegis businesses. Valves is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of specialty valve products for use in the chemical, petro-chemical, energy and sanitary markets as well as a leading producer of fluoroplastic lined corrosion-resistant magnetic drive and mechanical seal pumps, shut-off, control and safety valves for corrosive, hazardous, contaminated, pure and high-purity fluids. Alfa Valvole’s products are used in various industrial fields for fluid control, in both gas and liquid form, in all sectors of plant engineering, cosmetics, detergents, food industry, electric energy, pharmaceutical, chemical plants, petrochemical plants, oil, heating/air conditioning and also on ships, ferries and marine oil platforms. Richter’s products offer superior solutions for demanding and complex pump and valve applications in the process industry. Aegis produces specialty chemical processing valves for use in the chemical, petro-chemical, chlor-alkali and pulp and paper industries. Valves maintains operations in Casorezzo, Italy (Alfa Valvole products); Cedar Falls, Iowa, Kempen, Germany and Suzhou, China (Richter products); and Geismar, Louisiana (Aegis products). Approximately 78% of Valves’ 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Water. Water consists of the Company’s ADS, iPEK, Knight, Trebor, Pulsafeeder and OBL businesses. Water is a leading provider of metering technology, flow monitoring products and underground surveillance services for wastewater markets, alloy and non-metallic gear pumps, peristaltic pumps, transfer pumps as well as dispensing equipment for industrial laundries, commercial dishwashing and chemical metering. ADS’ products and services provide comprehensive integrated solutions that enable industry, municipalities and government agencies to analyze and measure the capacity, quality and integrity of wastewater collection systems, 3 Table of Contents including the maintenance and construction of such systems. iPEK supplies remote controlled systems used for infrastructure inspection. Knight is a leading manufacturer of pumps and dispensing equipment for industrial laundries, commercial dishwashing and chemical metering. Trebor is a leader in high-purity fluid handling products, including air-operated diaphragm pumps and deionized water-heating systems. Trebor products are used in the manufacturing of semiconductors, disk drives and flat panel displays. Pulsafeeder products (which also include OBL products) are used to introduce precise amounts of fluids into processes to manage water quality and chemical composition as well as peristaltic pumps. Its markets include water and wastewater treatment, oil and gas, power generation, pulp and paper, chemical and hydrocarbon processing and swimming pools. Water maintains operations in Huntsville, Alabama and various other locations in the United States, Canada and Australia (ADS products and services); Hirschegg, Austria and Sulzberg, Germany (iPEK products); Rochester, New York, Punta Gorda, Florida, and Milan, Italy (Pulsafeeder products); West Jordan, Utah (Trebor products); Irvine, California, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, and Lewes, England (Knight products); and a maquiladora in Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico (Knight products). Approximately 44% of Water’s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Pumps. Pumps consists of the Company’s Viking and Warren Rupp businesses. Pumps is a leading manufacturer of rotary internal gear, external gear, vane and rotary lobe pumps, custom-engineered OEM pumps, strainers, gear reducers and engineered pump systems. Viking’s products consist of external gear pumps, strainers and reducers and related controls used for transferring and metering thin and viscous liquids sold under the Viking and Wright Flow brands. Viking products primarily serve the chemical, petroleum, pulp and paper, plastics, paints, inks, tanker trucks, compressor, construction, food and beverage, personal care, pharmaceutical and biotech markets. Warren Rupp products (which include Versa-Matic products) are used for abrasive and semisolid materials as well as for applications where product degradation is a concern or where electricity is not available or should not be used. Warren Rupp products, which include air-operated double diaphragm pumps, primarily serve the chemical, paint, food processing, electronics, construction, utilities, oil and gas, mining and industrial maintenance markets. Pumps maintains operations in Cedar Falls, Iowa (Viking and Wright Flow products); Eastbourne, England (Wright Flow products); Shannon, Ireland (Viking and Blagdon products); and Mansfield, Ohio (Warren Rupp products). Pumps primarily uses independent distributors to market and sell its products. Approximately 37% of Pumps’ 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Agriculture. Agriculture consists of the Company’s Banjo business. Banjo is a provider of special purpose, severe-duty pumps, valves, fittings and systems used in liquid handling. Banjo is based in Crawfordsville, Indiana with distribution facilities in Didam, The Netherlands and Valinhos, Brazil. Its products are used in agriculture (approximately 71% of revenue) and industrial (approximately 29% of revenue) applications. Approximately 20% of Banjo’s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. HEALTH & SCIENCE TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT The Health & Science Technologies segment designs, produces and distributes a wide range of precision fluidics, rotary lobe pumps, centrifugal and positive displacement pumps, roll compaction and drying systems used in beverage, food processing, pharmaceutical and cosmetics, pneumatic components and sealing solutions, including very high precision, low-flow rate pumping solutions required in analytical instrumentation, clinical diagnostics and drug discovery, high performance molded and extruded sealing components, custom mechanical and shaft seals for a variety of end markets including food and beverage, marine, chemical, wastewater and water treatment, engineered hygienic mixers and valves for the global biopharmaceutical industry, biocompatible medical devices and implantables, air compressors used in medical, dental and industrial applications, optical components and coatings for applications in the fields of scientific research, defense, biotechnology, aerospace, telecommunications and electronics manufacturing, laboratory and commercial equipment used in the production of micro and nano scale materials, precision photonic solutions used in life sciences, research and defense markets and precision gear and peristaltic pump technologies that meet exacting original equipment manufacturer specifications. 4 Table of Contents Health & Science Technologies accounted for 37% , 36% and 36% of IDEX’s sales in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively, with approximately 55% of its 2019 sales to customers outside the U.S. The segment accounted for 31% , 32% and 32% of total segment operating income in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Scientific Fluidics & Optics. Scientific Fluidics & Optics consists of the Company’s Eastern Plastics, Rheodyne, Sapphire Engineering, Upchurch Scientific, ERC, CiDRA Precision Services, thinXXS, CVI Melles Griot, Semrock, AT Films (including Precision Photonics products) and FLI businesses. Eastern Plastics products, which consist of high-precision integrated fluidics and associated engineered manifolds, are used in a broad set of end markets including medical diagnostics, analytical instrumentation and laboratory automation. Rheodyne products consist of injectors, valves, fittings and accessories for the analytical instrumentation market. These products are used by manufacturers of high pressure liquid chromatography (“HPLC”) equipment servicing the pharmaceutical, biotech, life science, food and beverage, and chemical markets. Sapphire Engineering and Upchurch Scientific products consist of fluidic components and systems for the analytical, biotech and diagnostic instrumentation markets, such as fittings, precision-dispensing pumps and valves, tubing and integrated tubing assemblies, filter sensors and other micro-fluidic and nano-fluidic components as well as advanced column hardware and accessories for the high performance liquid chromatography market. The products produced by Sapphire Engineering and Upchurch Scientific primarily serve the pharmaceutical, drug discovery, chemical, biochemical processing, genomics/proteomics research, environmental labs, food/agriculture, medical lab, personal care and plastics/polymer/rubber production markets. ERC manufactures gas liquid separations and detection solutions for the life science, analytical instrumentation and clinical chemistry markets. ERC’s products consist of in-line membrane vacuum degassing solutions, refractive index detectors and ozone generation systems. CiDRA Precision Services’ products consist of microfluidic components serving the life science, health and industrial markets and thinXXS is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of microfluidic components serving the point of care, veterinary and life science markets. CVI Melles Griot is a global leader in the design and manufacture of precision photonic solutions used in the life science, research, semiconductor, security and defense markets. CVI Melles Griot’s innovative products are focused on the generation, control and productive use of light for a variety of key science and industrial applications. Products consist of specialty lasers and light sources, electro-optical components, specialty shutters, opto-mechanical assemblies and components. In addition, CVI Melles Griot produces critical components for life science research, electronics manufacturing, military and other industrial applications including lenses, mirrors, filters and polarizers. These components are utilized in a number of important applications such as spectroscopy, cytometry (cell counting), guidance systems for target designation, remote sensing, menology and optical lithography. Semrock is a provider of optical filters for biotech and analytical instrumentation in the life science market. Semrock’s optical filters are produced using state-of-the-art manufacturing processes which enable it to offer its customers significant improvements in instrument performance and reliability. AT Films specializes in optical components and coatings for applications in the fields of scientific research, defense, aerospace, telecommunications and electronics manufacturing. AT Films’ core competence is the design and manufacture of filters, splitters, reflectors and mirrors with the precise physical properties required to support their 5 Table of Contents customers’ most challenging and cutting-edge optical applications. The Precision Photonics portion of its business specializes in optical components and coatings for applications in the fields of scientific research, aerospace, telecommunications and electronics manufacturing. FLI specializes in the design, development and production of low-noise cooled charge-coupled device (“CCD”) and high speed, high-sensitivity Scientific complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (“CMOS”) cameras for the astronomy and life sciences markets. Scientific Fluidics & Optics has facilities in Bristol, Connecticut (Eastern Plastics products); Rohnert Park, California (Rheodyne products); Middleboro, Massachusetts (Sapphire Engineering products); Oak Harbor, Washington (Upchurch Scientific products); Kawaguchi, Japan (ERC products); Wallingford, Connecticut (CiDRA Precision Services products); Zweibrücken, Germany (thinXXS products); Albuquerque, New Mexico, Rochester, New York, Leicester, England and Didam, The Netherlands (CVI Melles Griot products); Rochester, New York (Semrock products); Boulder, Colorado (AT Films products); and Lima, New York (FLI products). Approximately 51% of Scientific Fluidics & Optics’ 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Sealing Solutions. Sealing Solutions consists of the Company’s Precision Polymer Engineering, FTL Seals Technology, Novotema, SFC Koenig and Velcora businesses. Precision Polymer Engineering is a provider of proprietary high performance seals and advanced sealing solutions for a diverse range of global industries and applications, including hazardous duty, analytical instrumentation, semiconductor, process technologies, oil and gas, pharmaceutical, electronics and food applications. Precision Polymer Engineering is headquartered in Blackburn, England with an additional manufacturing facility in Brenham, Texas. FTL Seals Technology, located in Leeds, England, specializes in the design and application of high integrity rotary seals, specialty bearings and other custom products for the mining, power generation and marine markets. Novotema, located in Villongo, Italy, is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of specialty sealing solutions for use in the building products, gas control, transportation, industrial and water markets. SFC Koenig is a producer of highly engineered expanders and check valves for critical applications across the transportation, hydraulic, aviation and medical markets. SFC Koenig is based in Dietikon, Switzerland, with additional facilities in North Haven, Connecticut, Illerrieden, Germany, and Suzhou, China. Velcora and its operating subsidiaries, Roplan and Steridose, are headquartered in Sweden with operations in China, the United Kingdom and the United States. Roplan is a global manufacturer of custom mechanical and shaft seals for a variety of end markets including food and beverage, marine, chemical, wastewater and water treatment. Steridose develops engineered hygienic mixers and valves for the global biopharmaceutical industry. Approximately 78% of Sealing Solutions’ 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Gast. The Gast business is a leading manufacturer of air-moving products, including air motors, low-range and medium-range vacuum pumps, vacuum generators, regenerative blowers and fractional horsepower compressors. Gast products are used in a variety of long-life applications requiring a quiet, clean source of moderate vacuum or pressure. Gast products primarily serve the medical equipment, environmental equipment, computers and electronics, printing machinery, paint mixing machinery, packaging machinery, graphic arts and industrial manufacturing markets. Based in Benton Harbor, Michigan, Gast also has a logistics and commercial center in Redditch, England. Approximately 25% of Gast’s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Micropump. Micropump, headquartered in Vancouver, Washington, is a leader in small, precision-engineered, magnetically and electromagnetically driven rotary gear, piston and centrifugal pumps. Micropump products are used in low-flow abrasive and corrosive applications. Micropump products primarily serve the continuous ink-jet printing, medical equipment, chemical processing, pharmaceutical, refining, laboratory, electronics, textiles, peristaltic metering pumps, analytical process controllers and sample preparation systems markets. Approximately 74% of Micropump’s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Material Processing Technologies. Material Processing Technologies consists of the Company’s Quadro, Fitzpatrick, Microfluidics and Matcon businesses. Quadro is a leading provider of particle control solutions for the pharmaceutical and bio-pharmaceutical markets. Based in Waterloo, Canada, Quadro’s core capabilities include fine milling, emulsification and special handling of liquid and solid particulates for laboratory, pilot phase and production scale processing. Fitzpatrick is a global leader in the design and manufacture of process technologies for the pharmaceutical, food and personal care markets. Fitzpatrick designs and manufactures customized size reduction, roll compaction and drying systems to support their customers’ product development and manufacturing processes. Fitzpatrick is headquartered in Waterloo, Canada. Microfluidics is a global leader in the design and manufacture of laboratory and commercial equipment used in the production of micro and nano scale materials for the pharmaceutical and chemical markets. Microfluidics is the exclusive producer of the Microfluidizer family of high shear fluid processors for uniform particle size reduction, robust cell disruption and nanoparticle creation. Microfluidics is also based in Waterloo, Canada and has offices in Newton, Massachusetts. Matcon is a global leader in material processing solutions for high value powders used in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals, food, plastics and fine chemicals. Matcon’s innovative products consist of the original cone valve powder discharge system and filling, mixing and packaging systems, all of which support its customers’ automation and process requirements. These products are critical to its customers’ need to maintain clean, reliable and repeatable formulations of prepackaged foods and pharmaceuticals while helping them achieve lean and agile manufacturing. Matcon is located in Evesham, England. Approximately 61% of Material Processing Technologies’ 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. 6 Table of Contents FIRE & SAFETY/DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS SEGMENT The Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segment designs, produces and distributes firefighting pumps, valves and controls, rescue tools, lifting bags and other components and systems for the fire and rescue industry, engineered stainless steel banding and clamping devices used in a variety of industrial and commercial applications and precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the world. The Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segment accounted for 25% , 26% and 26% of IDEX’s sales in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively, with approximately 52% of its 2019 sales to customers outside the U.S. The segment accounted for 25% , 26% and 26% of total segment operating income in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Fire & Safety. Fire & Safety consists of the Company’s Class 1, Hale, Godiva, Akron Brass, AWG Fittings, Dinglee, Hurst Jaws of Life, Lukas and Vetter businesses, which produce truck-mounted and portable fire pumps, stainless steel valves, monitors, apparatus valves, nozzles, foam and compressed air foam systems, pump modules and pump kits, electronic controls and information systems, conventional and networked electrical systems, mechanical components for the fire, rescue and specialty vehicle markets, hydraulic, battery, gas and electric-operated rescue equipment, hydraulic re-railing equipment, hydraulic tools for industrial applications, recycling cutters, pneumatic lifting and sealing bags for vehicle and aircraft rescue, environmental protection and disaster control and shoring equipment for vehicular or structural collapse. Fire & Safety’s customers are OEMs as well as public and private fire and rescue organizations. Fire & Safety maintains facilities in Ocala, Florida (Class 1 and Hale products); Warwick, England (Godiva products); Wooster and Columbus, Ohio (Akron Brass and Weldon products); Ballendorf, Germany (AWG Fittings products); Shelby, North Carolina (Hurst Jaws of Life products); Tianjin, China (Dinglee products); Erlangen, Germany (Lukas products); and Zulpich, Germany (Vetter products). Approximately 50% of Fire & Safety’s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. Band-It. Band-It is a leading producer of high-quality stainless steel banding, buckles and clamping systems. The BAND-IT brand is highly recognized worldwide. Band-It products are used for securing exhaust system heat and sound shields, industrial hose fittings, traffic signs and signals, electrical cable shielding, identification and bundling and in numerous other industrial and commercial applications. Band-It products primarily serve the automotive, transportation equipment, oil and gas, general industrial maintenance, electronics, electrical, communications, aerospace, utility, municipal and subsea marine markets. Band-It is based in Denver, Colorado, with additional operations in Staveley, England. Approximately 41% of Band-It’s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. 7 Table of Contents Dispensing. Dispensing produces precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the world. Dispensing is a global supplier of precision-designed tinting, mixing, dispensing and measuring equipment for auto refinishing and architectural paints. Dispensing products are used in retail and commercial stores, hardware stores, home centers, department stores, automotive body shops as well as point-of-purchase dispensers. Dispensing maintains facilities in Sassenheim, The Netherlands, Wheeling, Illinois, Unanderra, Australia and Milan, Italy as well as IDEX shared manufacturing facilities in India and China. Approximately 67% of Dispensing’s 2019 sales were to customers outside the U.S. INFORMATION APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS IN GENERAL AND ITS SEGMENTS Competitors The Company’s businesses participate in highly competitive markets. IDEX believes that the principal points of competition are product quality, design and engineering capabilities, product development, conformity to customer specifications, quality of post-sale support, timeliness of delivery and effectiveness of our distribution channels. Principal competitors of the Fluid & Metering Technologies segment are the Pumps Group (Maag, Blackmer and Wilden products) of Dover Corporation (with respect to pumps and small horsepower compressors used in liquefied petroleum gas distribution facilities, rotary gear pumps and air-operated double-diaphragm pumps); Milton Roy LLC (with respect to metering pumps and controls); and Tuthill Corporation (with respect to rotary gear pumps). Principal competitors of the Health & Science Technologies segment are the Thomas division of Gardner Denver, Inc. (with respect to vacuum pumps and compressors); Thermo Scientific Dionex products (with respect to analytical instrumentation); Parker Hannifin (with respect to sealing devices); Valco Instruments Co., Inc. (with respect to fluid injectors and valves); and Gooch & Housego PLC (with respect to electro-optic and precision photonics solutions used in the life sciences market). The principal competitors of the Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segment are Waterous Company, a unit of American Cast Iron Pipe Company (with respect to truck-mounted firefighting pumps); Holmatro, Inc. (with respect to rescue tools); Corob S.p.A. (with respect to dispensing and mixing equipment for the paint industry); and Panduit Corporation (with respect to stainless steel bands, buckles and clamping systems). Customers None of our customers in 2019 accounted for more than two percent of net sales. Employees At December 31, 2019 , the Company had 7,439 employees. Approximately 7% of employees were represented by labor unions, with various contracts expiring through June 2023. Management believes that the Company has a positive relationship with its employees. The Company historically has been able to renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements satisfactorily, with its last work stoppage occurring in March 1993. Suppliers The Company manufactures many of the parts and components used in its products. Substantially all materials, parts and components purchased by the Company are available from multiple sources. Inventory and Backlog The Company regularly and systematically adjusts production schedules and quantities based on the flow of incoming orders. Backlogs typically are limited to two months of production. While total inventory levels also may be affected by changes in orders, the Company generally tries to maintain relatively stable inventory levels based on its assessment of the requirements of the various industries served. Raw Materials The Company uses a wide variety of raw materials which are generally available from a number of sources. As a result, shortages from any single supplier have not had, and are not likely to have a material impact on operations. 8 Table of Contents Shared Services The Company has production facilities in Suzhou, China and Vadodara, India that support multiple business units. IDEX also has personnel in China, India, Dubai, Mexico, Latin America and Singapore that provide sales and marketing, product design and engineering and sourcing support to its business units as well as personnel in various locations in South America, the Middle East, Korea and Japan to support sales and marketing efforts of IDEX businesses in those regions. Segment Information For segment financial information for the years 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , including financial information about foreign and domestic sales and operations, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Information about Our Executive Officers Set forth below are the names of the executive officers of the Company, their ages, years of service, the positions held by them and their business experience during the past five years. Mr. Silvernail has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since August 2011 and as Chairman of the Board since January 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Silvernail was Vice President-Group Executive Health & Science Technologies, Global Dispensing and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products from January 2011 to August 2011. From February 2010 to December 2010, Mr. Silvernail was Vice President-Group Executive Health & Science Technologies and Global Dispensing. Mr. Silvernail joined IDEX in January 2009 as Vice President-Group Executive Health & Science Technologies. Mr. Grogan has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2017. Prior to that, Mr. Grogan served as Vice President of Finance, Operations from July 2015 through January 2017. From January 2012 through July 2015, Mr. Grogan was Vice President-Finance for the Company’s Health & Science Technologies and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segments. Mr. Ashleman has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since July 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Ashleman served as the Vice President-Group Executive of the Company’s Health & Science Technologies and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segments from January 2014 through July 2015 and President-Group Executive of the Company’s Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segment from 2011 through January 2014. Mr. Ashleman joined IDEX in 2008 as the President of Gast Manufacturing. Mr. Bucklew has served as the Senior Vice President-Chief Human Resources Officer since joining IDEX in March 2012. Prior to joining IDEX, Mr. Bucklew served as the Vice President of Human Resources for Accretive Health from March 2009 to March 2012. Ms. Cade has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since joining IDEX in October 2015. Prior to joining IDEX, Ms. Cade was Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer for SunCoke Energy, Inc. from March 2011 to October 2015 and held various roles at PPG Industries before joining SunCoke. Mr. Salliotte has served as Senior Vice President-Corporate Development since March 2018. Prior to that, Mr. Salliotte served as Senior Vice President-Corporate Strategy, Mergers & Acquisitions and Treasury since February 2011. Mr. Salliotte joined IDEX in October 2004 as Vice President-Strategy and Business Development. 9 Table of Contents Mr. Yates has served as Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since February 2010, and served as interim Chief Financial Officer from September 2016 to December 2016. Mr. Yates joined IDEX as Vice President-Controller in October 2005. The Company’s executive officers are elected at a meeting of the Board of Directors immediately following the annual meeting of stockholders, and they serve until the meeting of the Board immediately following the next annual meeting of stockholders, or until their successors are duly elected and qualified or until their death, resignation or removal. Public Filings Copies of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are made available free of charge at www.idexcorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after being filed electronically with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Our reports are also available free of charge on the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov. Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K. 10 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. For an enterprise as diverse and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors present risks to the Company and could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of our operations and the financial results of our operations elsewhere in this report, the most significant of these factors are included below. Current global economic events and conditions may amplify many of these risks. These risks are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks that we are not aware of or do not believe are material at the time of this filing may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. Changes in U.S. or International Economic Conditions Could Materially Adversely Affect the Sales and Profitability of Our Businesses. In 2019 , 50% of the Company’s sales were derived from domestic operations while 50% were derived from international operations. The Company’s largest end markets include industrial, semiconductor, automotive, life sciences and medical technologies, fire and rescue, oil and gas, paint and coatings, chemical processing, agriculture, water and wastewater treatment and optical filters and components. A slowdown in the U.S. or global economy and, in particular, any of these specific end markets could materially reduce the Company’s sales and profitability. Change to Geopolitical and Economic Conditions in the U.S. and Foreign Countries in Which We Operate Could Adversely Affect Our Business. In 2019 , approximately 50% of our total sales were to customers outside the U.S. We expect our international operations and export sales to continue to be significant for the foreseeable future. Our sales from international operations and our sales from export are both subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the U.S. These risks include the following: Any of these events could have a materially adverse impact on our business and operations. Our Inability to Continue to Develop New Products Could Limit Our Sales Growth. Our ability to continue to grow organically is tied in large part to our ability to continue to develop new products. A failure to continue to develop and deliver new, innovative and competitive products to the market could limit our sales growth and negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our Growth Strategy Includes Acquisitions and We May Not be Able to Make Acquisitions of Suitable Candidates or Integrate Acquisitions Successfully. Our historical growth has included, and our future growth is likely to continue to include, acquisitions. We intend to continue to seek acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in existing markets throughout the world. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. In addition, any acquisition, once successfully integrated, may not perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or otherwise prove beneficial to us. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the assumption of undisclosed or unindemnified liabilities, difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s 11 Table of Contents attention from other business concerns. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted in, and future acquisitions could result in, the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. The Markets We Serve are Highly Competitive and this Competition Could Reduce our Sales and Operating Margins. Most of our products are sold in competitive markets. Maintaining and improving our competitive position will require continued investment by us in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support and our distribution networks. We may not be successful in maintaining our competitive position. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products or may develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services or may adapt more quickly than us to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Pricing pressures may require us to adjust the prices of our products to stay competitive. We may not be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Failure to continue competing successfully could reduce our sales, operating margins and overall financial performance. We are Dependent on the Availability of Raw Materials, Parts and Components Used in Our Products. While we manufacture certain parts and components used in our products, we require substantial amounts of raw materials and purchase some parts and components from suppliers. The availability and prices for raw materials, parts and components may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, including due to geopolitical unrest, unfavorable economic or industry conditions, labor disruptions, catastrophic weather events, natural disasters or the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials or parts and components could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Significant Movements in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates May Harm Our Financial Results. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Euro, Swiss Franc, Canadian Dollar, British Pound, Indian Rupee, Chinese Renminbi and Swedish Krona. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the U.S. Dollar could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Fluctuations in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Position. Our profitability may be adversely affected during any periods of unexpected or rapid increases in interest rates. We maintain a revolving credit facility, which bears interest at either an alternate base rate or adjusted LIBOR plus, in each case, an applicable margin based on the Company's senior, unsecured, long-term debt rating or the Company’s applicable leverage ratio. A significant increase in LIBOR would significantly increase our cost of borrowings. We are also exposed to risks if the U.S. Federal Reserve raises its benchmark interest rate, which may reduce the availability and increase the cost of obtaining new debt and refinancing existing indebtedness. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." An Unfavorable Outcome of Any of Our Pending Contingencies or Litigation Could Adversely Affect Us. We are currently involved in pending and threatened legal, regulatory and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. These proceedings may pertain to matters such as product liability or contract disputes, and may also involve governmental inquiries, inspections, audits or investigations relating to issues such as tax matters, intellectual property, environmental, health and safety issues, governmental regulations, employment and other matters. Where it is reasonably possible to do so, we accrue estimates of the probable costs for the resolution of these matters. These estimates are developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential results and the availability of insurance coverage, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future operating results for any particular quarter or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions, the continued availability of insurance coverage or the effectiveness of our strategies related to these proceedings. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and Note 10 in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 12 Table of Contents Our Intangible Assets, Including Goodwill, are a Significant Portion of Our Total Assets and a Write-off of Our Intangible Assets or Goodwill Would Adversely Impact Our Operating Results and Significantly Reduce Our Net Worth. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. At December 31, 2019 , goodwill and intangible assets totaled $1,779.7 million and $388.0 million , respectively. These assets primarily result from our acquisitions, representing the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the tangible net assets we have acquired. Annually, or when certain events occur that require a more current valuation, we assess whether there has been an impairment in the value of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our reporting units were to fall significantly below forecasted levels, we could be required to reflect, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating income for an impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of our goodwill or identifiable intangible assets would adversely impact our results of operations and net worth. See Note 5 in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further discussion on goodwill and intangible assets. A Significant or Sustained Decline in Commodity Prices, Including Oil, Could Negatively Impact the Levels of Expenditures by Certain of Our Customers. Demand for our products depends, in part, on the level of new and planned expenditures by certain of our customers. The level of expenditures by our customers is dependent on, among other factors, general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. Volatility in commodity prices, including oil, can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. The ability of our customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by the conditions in their industries. Reduced demand for our products could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts our absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. This reduced demand could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Success Depends on Our Executive Management and Other Key Personnel. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive management and other key personnel and their ability to provide the Company with uninterrupted leadership and direction. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or a failure to provide adequate succession plans for key personnel could have an adverse impact. The availability of highly qualified talent is limited and the competition for talent is robust. However, we provide long-term equity incentives and certain other benefits for our executive officers which provide incentives for them to make a long-term commitment to our Company. Our future success will also depend on our ability to have adequate succession plans in place and to attract, retain and develop qualified personnel. A failure to efficiently replace executive management members and other key personnel and to attract, retain and develop new qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations and implementation of our strategic plan. Challenges with Respect to Labor Availability Could Negatively Impact our Ability to Operate or Grow our Business. Our success depends in part on the ability of our businesses to proactively attract, motivate and retain a qualified and highly skilled workforce in an intensely competitive labor market. A failure to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel could adversely affect our operating results or our ability to operate or grow our business. Additionally, any labor stoppages or labor disruptions, including due to geopolitical unrest, unfavorable economic or industry conditions, catastrophic weather events, natural disasters or the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness could adversely affect our operating results or our ability to operate or grow our business. Our Business Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Information Systems Interruptions or Intrusion. We depend on various information technologies throughout our Company to administer, store and support multiple business activities. If these systems (or the systems of our customers or third-party hosting services) are damaged, cease to function properly or are subject to cyber-security attacks, such as those involving unauthorized access, malicious software and/or other intrusions, we could experience production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems or networks, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, penalties, fines and/or damage to our reputation. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, technical security controls and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products and services remain potentially vulnerable to known or unknown threats, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Further, given the 13 Table of Contents unpredictability, nature and scope of cyber-security attacks, it is possible that potential vulnerabilities could go undetected for an extended period. Failure To Comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act or Other Applicable Anti-bribery Laws Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the SEC, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. Our policies mandate compliance with all anti-bribery laws. However, we operate in certain countries that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption. Our internal control policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-party intermediaries. Violations of these anti-bribery laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.