. Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times at, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking information is based on information available at the time and/or our good faith belief with 42 Table of Contents respect to future events, and is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements. Such factors include, among other things, the following: 43 Table of Contents 44 Table of Contents Given these uncertainties, risks and assumptions, as outlined above, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Our actual results and financial condition could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made. We assume no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except as may be required by law. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. A summary of our significant accounting policies is outlined in Note 1 to the financial statements. We consider our critical accounting policies to be those that require us to make significant judgments and estimates when we prepare our financial statements, including the following: Revenue recognition: We record revenues and related receivables for health care services at the time the services are provided. Medicare and Medicaid revenues represented 38% of our net patient revenues during 2013, 39% during 2012 and 41% during 2011. Revenues from managed care entities, including health maintenance organizations and managed Medicare and Medicaid programs accounted for 49% of our net patient revenues during each of 2013 and 2012 and 47% during 2011. We report net patient service revenue at the estimated net realizable amounts from patients and third-party payors and others for services rendered. We have agreements with third-party payors that provide for payments to us at amounts different from our established rates. Payment arrangements include prospectively determined rates per discharge, reimbursed costs, discounted charges and per diem payments. Estimates of contractual allowances under managed care plans are based upon the payment terms specified in the related contractual agreements. We closely monitor our historical collection rates, as well as changes in applicable laws, rules and regulations and contract terms, to assure that provisions are made using the most accurate information available. However, due to the complexities involved in these estimations, actual payments from payors may be different from the amounts we estimate and record. We estimate our Medicare and Medicaid revenues using the latest available financial information, patient utilization data, government provided data and in accordance with applicable Medicare and Medicaid payment rules and regulations. The laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are extremely complex and subject to interpretation and as a result, there is at least a reasonable possibility that recorded 45 Table of Contents estimates will change by material amounts in the near term. Certain types of payments by the Medicare program and state Medicaid programs (e.g. Medicare Disproportionate Share Hospital, Medicare Allowable Bad Debts and Inpatient Psychiatric Services) are subject to retroactive adjustment in future periods as a result of administrative review and audit and our estimates may vary from the final settlements. Such amounts are included in accounts receivable, net, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The funding of both federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs are subject to legislative and regulatory changes. As such, we cannot provide any assurance that future legislation and regulations, if enacted, will not have a material impact on our future Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. Adjustments related to the final settlement of these retrospectively determined amounts did not materially impact our results in 2013, 2012 or 2011. If it were to occur, each 1% adjustment to our estimated net Medicare revenues that are subject to retrospective review and settlement as of December 31, 2013, would change our after-tax net income by approximately $1 million. We provide care to patients who meet certain financial or economic criteria without charge or at amounts substantially less than our established rates. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts determined to qualify as charity care, they are not reported in net revenues or in accounts receivable, net. See additional disclosure below in Charity Care and Uninsured Discounts in Acute Care Hospital Services for our estimated uncompensated care provided and estimated cost of providing uncompensated care. A portion of the accounts receivable at our acute care facilities are comprised of Medicaid accounts that are pending approval from third-party payers but we also have smaller amounts due from other miscellaneous payers such as county indigent programs in certain states. Our patient registration process includes an interview of the patient or the patient’s responsible party at the time of registration. At that time, an insurance eligibility determination is made and an insurance plan code is assigned. There are various pre-established insurance profiles in our patient accounting system which determine the expected insurance reimbursement for each patient based on the insurance plan code assigned and the services rendered. Certain patients may be classified as Medicaid pending at registration based upon a screening evaluation if we are unable to definitively determine if they are currently Medicaid eligible. When a patient is registered as Medicaid eligible or Medicaid pending our patient accounting system records net revenues for the services provided to that patient based upon the established Medicaid reimbursement rates pending ultimate disposition of the patient’s Medicaid eligibility. Based on general factors as discussed below in Provision for Doubtful Accounts , our acute care facilities make estimates at each financial reporting period to reserve for amounts that are deemed to be uncollectible. Such estimated uncollectible amounts related to Medicaid pending, as well as other accounts receivable payer classifications, are considered when the overall individual facility and company-wide reserves are developed. Adjustments related to the final determination of these accounts did not materially impact our results of operations in 2013, 2012 or 2011. Provision for Doubtful Accounts: Collection of receivables from third-party payers and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. Our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill which is the patient’s responsibility, primarily co-payments and deductibles. We estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payer mix, the agings of the receivables and historical collection experience. We routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions which might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. At our acute care hospitals, third party liability accounts are pursued until all payment and adjustments are posted to the patient account. For those accounts with a patient balance after third party liability is finalized or accounts for uninsured patients, the patient receives statements and collection letters. Patients that express an inability to pay are reviewed for potential sources of financial assistance including our charity care policy. If the patient is deemed unwilling to pay, the account is written-off as bad debt and transferred to an outside collection agency for additional collection effort. Uninsured patients that do not qualify as charity patients are extended an uninsured discount of a minimum of 30% of total charges. Our hospitals establish a partial reserve for self-pay accounts in the allowance for 46 Table of Contents doubtful accounts for both unbilled balances and those that have been billed and are under 90 days old. All self-pay accounts are fully reserved at 90 days from the date of discharge. Third party liability accounts are fully reserved in the allowance for doubtful accounts when the balance ages past 180 days from the date of discharge. Potential charity accounts are fully reserved when it is determined the patient may be unable to pay. On a consolidated basis, we monitor our total self-pay receivables to ensure that the total allowance for doubtful accounts provides adequate coverage based on historical collection experience. Our accounts receivable are recorded net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $395 million and $311 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Approximately 90% during 2013 and 87% during 2012 of our consolidated provision for doubtful accounts, was incurred by our acute care hospitals. Shown below is our payer mix concentrations and related aging of our billed accounts receivable, net of contractual allowances, for our acute care hospitals as of December 31, 2013 and 2012: As of December 31, 2013: As of December 31, 2012: Accounting for Medicare and Medicaid Electronic Health Records Incentive Payments: In July 2010, the Department of Health and Human Services published final regulations implementing the health information technology provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The regulation defines the “meaningful use” of Electronic Health Records (“EHR”) and established the requirements for the Medicare and Medicaid EHR payment incentive programs. The implementation period for these new Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments started in federal fiscal year 2011 and can end as late as 2016 for Medicare and 2021 for the state Medicaid programs. We recognize income related to Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments using a gain contingency model that is based upon when our eligible hospitals have demonstrated “meaningful use” of certified EHR technology for the applicable period and the cost report information for the full cost report year that will determine the final calculation of the incentive payment is available. Medicare EHR incentive payments: Federal regulations require that Medicare EHR incentive payments be computed based on the Medicare cost report that begins in the federal fiscal period in which a hospital meets the applicable “meaningful use” requirements. Since the annual Medicare cost report periods for each of our acute care hospitals ends on December 31 st , we will recognize Medicare EHR incentive income for each hospital during the fourth quarter of the year in which the facility meets the “meaningful use” criteria and during the fourth quarter of each applicable subsequent year. 47 Table of Contents Medicaid EHR incentive payments: Medicaid EHR incentive payments are determined based upon prior period cost report information available at the time our hospitals met the “meaningful use” criteria. Therefore, the majority of the Medicaid EHR incentive income recognition occurred in the period in which the applicable hospitals were deemed to have met initial “meaningful use” criteria. Upon meeting subsequent fiscal year “meaningful use” criteria, our hospitals may become entitled to additional Medicaid EHR incentive payments which will be recognized as incentive income in future periods. Medicaid EHR incentive payments received prior to our hospitals meeting the “meaningful use” criteria were included in other current liabilities (as deferred EHR incentive income) in our consolidated balance sheet. Self-Insured Risks: We provide for self-insured risks, primarily general and professional liability claims and workers’ compensation claims. Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and general liability claims is based on a number of factors including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts, estimate of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable under our commercial insurance policies. All relevant information, including our own historical experience is used in estimating the expected amount of claims. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved in making this estimate. Our estimated self-insured reserves are reviewed and changed, if necessary, at each reporting date and changes are recognized currently as additional expense or as a reduction of expense. Given our significant self-insured exposure for professional and general liability claims, there can be no assurance that a sharp increase in the number and/or severity of claims asserted against us will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Professional and General Liability and Workers Compensation Liability: Effective January 1, 2008, most of our subsidiaries became self-insured for professional and general liability exposure up to $10 million per occurrence. Prior to our acquisition of Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. (“PSI”) in November, 2010, our subsidiaries purchased several excess policies through commercial insurance carriers which provide for coverage in excess of $10 million up to $200 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. However, we are liable for 10% of the claims paid pursuant to the commercially insured coverage in excess of $10 million up to $60 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. Prior to our acquisition in November, 2010, the PSI subsidiaries were commercially insured for professional and general liability insurance claims in excess of a $3 million self-insured retention to a limit of $75 million. PSI utilized its captive insurance company and that captive insurance company remains in place after our acquisition of PSI to manage the self-insured retention for all former PSI subsidiaries for claims incurred prior to January 1, 2011. The captive insurance company also continues to insure all professional and general liability claims, regardless of date incurred, for the former PSI subsidiaries located in Florida and Puerto Rico. Since our acquisition of PSI on November 15, 2010, the former PSI subsidiaries are self-insured for professional and general liability exposure up to $3 million per occurrence and our legacy subsidiaries (which are not former PSI subsidiaries) are self-insured for professional and general liability exposure up to $10 million per occurrence. Effective November, 2010, our subsidiaries (including the former PSI subsidiaries) were provided with several excess policies through commercial insurance carriers which provide for coverage in excess of the applicable per occurrence self-insured retention (either $3 million or $10 million) up to $250 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. We remain liable for 10% of the claims paid pursuant to the commercially insured coverage in excess of $10 million up to $60 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. The 9 behavioral health facilities acquired from Ascend Health Corporation in October, 2012 have general and professional liability policies through commercial insurance carriers which provide for up to $20 million of aggregate coverage, subject to a $25,000 per occurrence deductible. These facilities, like our other facilities, are also provided excess coverage through commercial insurance carriers for coverage in excess of the underlying commercial policy limitations up to $250 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. 48 Table of Contents Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and general liability claims is based on a number of factors including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts, estimates of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable under our commercial insurance policies. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved in making this estimate. Given our significant self-insured exposure for professional and general liability claims, there can be no assurance that a sharp increase in the number and/or severity of claims asserted against us will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, the total accrual for our professional and general liability claims was $206 million, of which $44 million is included in current liabilities. As of December 31, 2012, the total accrual for our professional and general liability claims was $279 million, of which $48 million is included in current liabilities. We recorded reductions to our professional and general liability self-insurance reserves (relating to prior years) amounting to $81 million during 2013, $27 million during 2012 and $11 million during 2011. The favorable change in our estimated future claims payments recorded during 2013, relating to years prior to 2013, were due primarily to: (i) an increased weighting given to company-specific metrics (to 100% from 75%), and decreased general industry metrics (to 0% from 25%), related to projected incidents per exposure, historical claims experience and loss development factors; (ii) historical data which measured the realized favorable impact of medical malpractice tort reform experienced in several states in which we operate, and; (iii) a decrease in claims related to certain higher risk specialties (such as obstetrical) due to a continuation of the company-wide patient safety initiative undertaken during the last several years. As the number of our facilities and our patient volumes have increased, thereby providing for a statistically significant data group, and taking into consideration our long-history of company-specific risk management programs and claims experience, our reserve analyses have included a greater emphasis on our historical professional and general liability experience which has developed favorably as compared to general industry trends. The favorable change recorded during 2012 resulted from favorable changes in our estimated future claims payments pursuant to a reserve analysis. The favorable change recorded during 2011 consisted primarily of third-party recoveries and reserve reductions in connection with PHICO–related claims which we became liable for upon PHICO’s (a former commercial insurance carrier) liquidation in 2002. As of December 31, 2013, the total accrual for our workers’ compensation liability claims was $64 million, of which $34 million is included in current liabilities. As of December 31, 2012, the total accrual for our workers’ compensation liability claims was $66 million, of which $35 million is included in current liabilities. The adjustments recorded during the last three years to our prior year reserves for workers’ compensation claims did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 or 2011. Although we are unable to predict whether or not our future financial statements will include adjustments to our prior year reserves for self-insured general and professional and workers’ compensation claims, given the relatively unpredictable nature of the these potential liabilities and the factors impacting these reserves, as discussed above, it is reasonably likely that our future financial results may include material adjustments to prior period reserves. 49 Table of Contents Below is a schedule showing the changes in our general and professional liability and workers’ compensation reserves during the three years ended December 31, 2013 (amount in thousands): In addition, we also maintain self-insured employee benefits programs for employee healthcare and dental claims. The ultimate costs related to these programs include expenses for claims incurred and paid in addition to an accrual for the estimated expenses incurred in connection with claims incurred but not yet reported. Property Insurance: Property Insurance: We have commercial property insurance policies covering catastrophic losses, including windstorm damage, up to a $1 billion policy limit per occurrence, subject to a $250,000 deductible for the majority of our properties (the properties acquired from Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. are subject to a $50,000 deductible). Losses resulting from named windstorms are subject to deductibles between 3% and 5% of the declared total insurable value of the property. In addition, we have commercial property insurance policies covering catastrophic losses resulting from earthquake and flood damage, each subject to aggregated loss limits (as opposed to per occurrence losses). Our earthquake limit is $250 million, subject to a deductible of $250,000, except for facilities located within documented fault zones. Earthquake losses that affect facilities located in fault zones within the United States are subject to a $100 million limit and will have applied deductibles ranging from 1% to 5% of the declared total insurable value of the property. The earthquake limit in Puerto Rico is $25 million, subject to a $25,000 deductible. Non-critical flood losses have either a $250,000 or $500,000 deductible, based upon the location of the facility. Since certain of our facilities have been designated by our insurer as flood prone, we have elected to purchase policies from The National Flood Insurance Program to cover a substantial portion of the applicable deductible. Due to an increase in property losses experienced nationwide in recent years, our catastrophic coverage for earthquake and flood has been limited to annual aggregate losses (as opposed to per occurrence losses). There can be no assurance that a sharp increase in uninsured property losses sustained by us, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. 50 Table of Contents Long-Lived Assets: We review our long-lived assets, including intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of our asset based on our estimate of its undiscounted future cash flow. If the analysis indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable from future cash flows, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value and an impairment loss is recognized. Fair values are determined based on estimated future cash flows using appropriate discount rates. Goodwill and Intangible Assets: Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or sooner if the indicators of impairment arise. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and operational performance of each reporting unit. We have designated September 1 st as our annual impairment assessment date and performed an impairment assessment as of September 1, 2013 which indicated no impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. There were also no impairments during 2012 or 2011. Future changes in the estimates used to conduct the impairment review, including profitability and market value projections, could indicate impairment in future periods potentially resulting in a write-off of a portion or all of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. Income Taxes: Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the amount of taxes payable or deductible in future years as a result of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements. We believe that future income will enable us to realize our deferred tax assets net of recorded valuation allowances relating to state net operating loss carry-forwards. We operate in multiple jurisdictions with varying tax laws. We are subject to audits by any of these taxing authorities. Our tax returns have been examined by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) through the year ended December 31, 2006. We believe that adequate accruals have been provided for federal, foreign and state taxes. See Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rates below for discussion of our effective tax rates during each of the last three years. Recent Accounting Pronouncements: For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements, please see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Standards as included in this Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. 51 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations, and is used in the discussion below, for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 (dollar amounts in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2012: Net revenues increased 5% or $322 million to $7.28 billion during 2013 as compared to $6.96 billion during 2012. The increase was primarily attributable to: Income before income taxes (before deduction for income attributable to noncontrolling interests) increased $106 million to $869 million during 2013 as compared to $764 million during 2012. Included in our income before income taxes during 2013, as compared to 2012, was the following: 52 Table of Contents Net income attributable to UHS increased $67 million to $511 million during 2013 as compared to $443 million during 2012. The increase consisted of: 53 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2011: Net revenues increased 3% or $201 million to $6.96 billion during 2012 as compared to $6.76 billion during 2011. The increase was primarily attributable to: Income before income taxes (before deduction for income attributable to noncontrolling interests) increased $67 million to $764 million during 2012 as compared to $696 million during 2011. Included in our income before income taxes during 2012, as compared to 2011, was the following: 54 Table of Contents Net income attributable to UHS increased $45 million to $443 million during 2012 as compared to $398 million during 2011. The increase consisted of: Acute Care Hospital Services Year Ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2012: Acute Care Hospitals-Same Facility Basis The following table summarizes the results of operations for our acute care facilities on a same facility basis and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (dollar amounts in thousands): On a same facility basis during 2013, as compared to 2012, net revenues at our acute care hospitals increased $129 million or 4%. Income before income taxes decreased $15 million or 5% to $277 million or 7.8% of net revenues during 2013 as compared to $291 million or 8.5% of net revenues during 2012. 55 Table of Contents Inpatient admissions to these facilities increased 0.2% during 2013, as compared to 2012, while patient days increased 1.4%. Adjusted admissions (adjusted for outpatient activity) increased 1.0% and adjusted patient days increased 2.2% during 2013, as compared to 2012. The average length of inpatient stay at these facilities was 4.5 days during each of 2013 and 2012. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 56% during each of 2013 and 2012. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities increased 2.7% during 2013, as compared to 2012, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 1.5% during 2013, as compared to 2012. All Acute Care Hospitals The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our acute care operations during 2013 and 2012, which includes our acute care results on a same facility basis, as well as the impact of other items as mentioned below (dollar amounts in thousands). During 2013, as compared to 2012, net revenues at our acute care hospitals increased $115 million or 3% to $3.58 billion due primarily to an increase in same facility revenues, as discussed above. Income before income taxes increased $5 million to $342 million or 9.6% of net revenues during 2013 as compared to $337 million or 9.7% of net revenues during 2012. Included in these results are the following: 56 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2011: Acute Care Hospitals-Same Facility Basis The following table summarizes the results of operations for our acute care facilities on a same facility basis and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 (dollar amounts in thousands): On a same facility basis during 2012, as compared to 2011, net revenues at our acute care hospitals increased $14 million or less than 1%. Income before income taxes decreased $52 million or 15% to $291 million or 8.5% of net revenues during 2012 as compared to $343 million or 10.0% of net revenues during 2011. Inpatient admissions to these facilities decreased 2.0% during 2012, as compared to 2011, while patient days decreased 1.7%. Adjusted admissions (adjusted for outpatient activity) increased 0.2% and adjusted patient days increased 0.5% during 2012, as compared to 2011. The average length of inpatient stay at these facilities was 4.5 days during each of 2012 and 2011. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 56% during 2012 and 58% during 2011. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted 57 Table of Contents admission at these facilities increased 0.2% during 2012, as compared to 2011, and net revenue per adjusted patient day decreased 0.1% during 2012, as compared to 2011. The decrease in income before income taxes and pressure on patient volumes, net revenues and net revenue per adjusted admission and adjusted patient day experienced at our acute care hospitals during 2012, as compared to 2011, were largely due to a decline in organic revenue growth caused by the continuing trends of weak demand and deteriorating payor mix. All Acute Care Hospitals The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our acute care operations during 2012 and 2011, which includes our acute care results on a same facility basis, as well as the impact of other items as mentioned below (dollar amounts in thousands). During 2012, as compared to 2011, net revenues at our acute care hospitals increased 1% or $37 million to $3.46 billion due primarily to the above-mentioned agreement related to underpayments of Medicare inpatient prospective payments during a number of prior years and an increase in same facility revenues, as discussed above. Income before income taxes decreased $16 million to $337 million or 9.7% of net revenues during 2012 as compared to $353 million or 10.3% of net revenues during 2011. Included in these results are the following: 58 Table of Contents Charity Care and Uninsured Discounts: A significant portion of the patients treated throughout our portfolio of acute care hospitals are uninsured patients which, in part, has resulted from an increase in the number of patients who are employed but do not have health insurance or who have policies with relatively high deductibles. Patients treated at our hospitals for non-elective services, who have gross income less than 400% of the federal poverty guidelines, are deemed eligible for charity care. The federal poverty guidelines are established by the federal government and are based on income and family size. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts that qualify as charity care, they are not reported in our net revenues or in our accounts receivable, net. We also provide discounts to uninsured patients (included in “uninsured discounts” amounts below) who do not qualify for Medicaid or charity care. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts classified as uninsured discounts, they are not reported in our net revenues or in our accounts receivable, net. In implementing the discount policy, we first attempt to qualify uninsured patients for governmental programs, charity care or any other discount program. If an uninsured patient does not qualify for these programs, the uninsured discount is applied. Uncompensated care: The following table shows the amounts recorded at our acute care hospitals for charity care and uninsured discounts, based on charges at established rates, for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011: In addition, the provision for doubtful accounts at our acute care hospitals were approximately $1.02 billion during 2013, $635 million during 2012 and $519 million during 2011. The estimated cost of providing uncompensated care: The estimated cost of providing uncompensated care, as reflected below, were based on a calculation which multiplied the percentage of operating expenses for our acute care hospitals to gross charges for those hospitals by the above-mentioned total uncompensated care amounts. The percentage of cost to gross charges is calculated based on the total operating expenses for our acute care facilities divided by gross patient service revenue for those facilities. An increase in the level of uninsured patients to our facilities and the resulting adverse trends in 59 Table of Contents the provision for doubtful accounts and uncompensated care provided could have a material unfavorable impact on our future operating results. Behavioral Health Care Services Year Ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2012 Behavioral Health Care Facilities-Same Facility Basis The following table summarizes the results of operations for our behavioral health care facilities, on a same facility basis, and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (dollar amounts in thousands): On a same facility basis during 2013, as compared to 2012, net revenues at our behavioral health care facilities increased $110 million or 3% to $3.51 billion during 2013 as compared to $3.40 billion during 2012. Income before income taxes increased $36 million or 4% to $854 million or 24.3% of net revenues during 2013 as compared to $818 million or 24.1% of net revenues during 2012. Inpatient admissions to these facilities increased 3.2% during 2013, as compared to 2012, while patient days increased 0.7%. Adjusted admissions increased 3.5% and adjusted patient days increased 1.0% during 2013, as compared to 2012. The average length of patient stay at these facilities was 13.4 days during 2013 and 13.7 days during 2012. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 75% during 2013 and 74% during 2012. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities decreased 0.3% during 2013, as compared to 2012, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 2.2% during 2013, as compared to 2012. 60 Table of Contents All Behavioral Health Care Facilities The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our behavioral health care facilities for 2013 and 2012, including, for the period of January through October of 2013, the 9 facilities acquired in October, 2012 from Ascend Health Corporation (the operating results for these facilities for November and December of 2013 and 2012 are included in the same facility results discussed above), as well as the impact of various other items as mentioned below (dollar amounts in thousands): During 2013, as compared to 2012, net revenues at our behavioral health care facilities increased 6% or $208 million to $3.67 billion during 2013 as compared to $3.46 billion during 2012. The increase in net revenues was attributable to: Income before income taxes increased $57 million or 7% to $896 million or 24.4% of net revenues during 2013, as compared to $839 million or 24.2% of net revenues during 2012. The increase in income before income taxes at our behavioral health facilities was attributable to: 61 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2011 Behavioral Health Care Facilities-Same Facility Basis The following table summarizes the results of operations for our behavioral health care facilities, on a same facility basis, and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 (dollar amounts in thousands): On a same facility basis during 2012, as compared to 2011, net revenues at our behavioral health care facilities increased 4% or $138 million to $3.38 billion during 2012 as compared to $3.24 billion during 2011. Income before income taxes increased $76 million or 10% to $810 million or 24.0% of net revenues during 2012 as compared to $734 million or 22.7% of net revenues during 2011. Inpatient admissions to these facilities increased 4.9% during 2012, as compared to 2011, while patient days increased 1.0%. Adjusted admissions increased 5.0% and adjusted patient days increased 1.0% during 2012, as compared to 2011. The average length of patient stay at these facilities was 14.0 days during 2012 and 14.6 days during 2011. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 74% during each of 2012 and 2011. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities decreased 0.7% during 2012, as compared to 2011, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 3.2% during 2012, as compared to 2011. 62 Table of Contents All Behavioral Health Care Facilities The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our behavioral health care facilities for 2012 and 2011, including the 9 facilities acquired in October, 2012 from Ascend Health Corporation, as well as the impact of various other items as mentioned below (dollar amounts in thousands): During 2012, as compared to 2011, net revenues at our behavioral health care facilities increased 5% or $151 million to $3.46 billion during 2012 as compared to $3.31 billion during 2011. The increase in net revenues was attributable to: Income before income taxes increased $109 million or 15% to $839 million or 24.2% of net revenues during 2012, as compared to $729 million or 22.0% of net revenues during 2011. The increase in income before income taxes at our behavioral health facilities was attributable to: 63 Table of Contents Sources of Revenue Overview: We receive payments for services rendered from private insurers, including managed care plans, the federal government under the Medicare program, state governments under their respective Medicaid programs and directly from patients. Hospital revenues depend upon inpatient occupancy levels, the medical and ancillary services and therapy programs ordered by physicians and provided to patients, the volume of outpatient procedures and the charges or negotiated payment rates for such services. Charges and reimbursement rates for inpatient routine services vary depending on the type of services provided (e.g., medical/surgical, intensive care or behavioral health) and the geographic location of the hospital. Inpatient occupancy levels fluctuate for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control. The percentage of patient service revenue attributable to outpatient services has generally increased in recent years, primarily as a result of advances in medical technology that allow more services to be provided on an outpatient basis, as well as increased pressure from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers to reduce hospital stays and provide services, where possible, on a less expensive outpatient basis. We believe that our experience with respect to our increased outpatient levels mirrors the general trend occurring in the health care industry and we are unable to predict the rate of growth and resulting impact on our future revenues. Patients are generally not responsible for any difference between customary hospital charges and amounts reimbursed for such services under Medicare, Medicaid, some private insurance plans, and managed care plans, but are responsible for services not covered by such plans, exclusions, deductibles or co-insurance features of their coverage. The amount of such exclusions, deductibles and co-insurance has generally been increasing each year. Indications from recent federal and state legislation are that this trend will continue. Collection of amounts due from individuals is typically more difficult than from governmental or business payers and we continue to experience an increase in uninsured and self-pay patients which unfavorably impacts the collectability of our patient accounts thereby increasing our provision for doubtful accounts and charity care provided. The significant portion of our revenues derived from these facilities makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental and competition changes in Texas and Nevada. Any material change in the current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental or competitive conditions in these states could have a disproportionate effect on our overall business results. The following tables show the approximate percentages of net patient revenue during the past three years (excludes sources of revenues for all periods presented for divested facilities which are reflected as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Financial Statements) for: (i) our Acute Care and Behavioral Health Care Facilities Combined; (ii) our Acute Care Facilities, and; (iii) our Behavioral Health Care Facilities. Net patient revenue is defined as revenue from all sources after deducting contractual allowances and discounts from established billing rates, which we derived from various sources of payment for the years indicated. 64 Table of Contents Medicare: Medicare is a federal program that provides certain hospital and medical insurance benefits to persons aged 65 and over, some disabled persons and persons with end-stage renal disease. All of our acute care hospitals and many of our behavioral health centers are certified as providers of Medicare services by the appropriate governmental authorities. Amounts received under the Medicare program are generally significantly less than a hospital’s customary charges for services provided. Since a substantial portion of our revenues will come from patients under the Medicare program, our ability to operate our business successfully in the future will depend in large measure on our ability to adapt to changes in this program. Under the Medicare program, for inpatient services, our general acute care hospitals receive reimbursement under the inpatient prospective payment system (“IPPS”). Under the IPPS, hospitals are paid a predetermined fixed payment amount for each hospital discharge. The fixed payment amount is based upon each patient’s Medicare severity diagnosis related group (“MS-DRG”). Every MS-DRG is assigned a payment rate based upon the estimated intensity of hospital resources necessary to treat the average patient with that particular diagnosis. The MS-DRG payment rates are based upon historical national average costs and do not consider the actual costs incurred by a hospital in providing care. This MS-DRG assignment also affects the predetermined capital rate paid with each MS-DRG. The MS-DRG and capital payment rates are adjusted annually by the predetermined geographic adjustment factor for the geographic region in which a particular hospital is located and are weighted based upon a statistically normal distribution of severity. While we generally will not receive payment from Medicare for inpatient services, other than the MS-DRG payment, a hospital may qualify for an “outlier” payment if a particular patient’s treatment costs are extraordinarily high and exceed a specified threshold. MS-DRG rates are adjusted by an update factor each federal fiscal year, which begins on October 1. The index used to adjust the MS-DRG rates, known as the “hospital market basket index,” gives consideration to the inflation experienced by hospitals in purchasing goods and services. Generally, however, the percentage increases in the MS-DRG payments have been lower than the projected increase in the cost of goods and services purchased by hospitals. In August, 2013, CMS published its final IPPS 2014 payment rule which provides for a 2.5% market basket increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates, documenting and coding adjustments and Health Care Reform mandated adjustments are considered, we estimate our overall increase from the final federal fiscal year 2014 rule 65 Table of Contents (covering the period of October 1, 2013 through September 30, 2014) will approximate 1.0%. This projected impact from the IPPS 2014 final rule includes both the impact of the American Taxpayer Relief Act (“ATRA”) of 2012 documentation and coding adjustment and the required changes to the Medicare Disproportionate Share Hospital payments related to the traditional Medicare fee for service, however, it excludes the impact of the sequestration reductions related to the Budget Control Act of 2011, as discussed below. The final rule would also expand CMS’s policy under which it defines inpatient admissions to include the use of an objective time of care standard. Specifically, it would require Medicare’s external review contractors to presume that hospital inpatient admissions are reasonable and necessary when beneficiaries receive a physician order for admission and receive medically necessary services for at least two midnights (the “Two Midnight” rule). Correspondingly, under the final rule, CMS would presume that hospital services spanning less than two midnights should have been provided on an outpatient basis and paid under Medicare Part B unless the medical record contains clear documentation supporting the physician’s order and an expectation that the Medicare beneficiary would need medically necessary care for more than two midnights, or is receiving services which CMS designates as inpatient only. Our acute care hospitals have begun to comply with the Two Midnight rule and, although we are unable to determine the ultimate impact at this time, its application could have a material unfavorable impact on our future results of operations. Excluding the potential impact of the Two Midnight rule, we do not expect the final IPPS 2014 payment rule to have a material impact on our future results of operations. In February, 2014, CMS extended a policy an additional six months where Recovery Auditor Contractors and other Medicare review contractors will not conduct post-payment patient status reviews of inpatient hospital claims with dates of admission on or after October 1, 2013 through September 30, 2014. In August, 2012, CMS published its final IPPS 2013 payment rule which provided for a 2.6% market basket increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates, documenting and coding adjustments and Health Care Reform mandated adjustments are considered, we estimate our overall increase from the final federal fiscal year 2013 rule (covering the period of October 1, 2012 through September 30, 2013) approximated 1.8%. The impact from the IPPS 2013 final rule reflects all of the adjustments described in this paragraph, however, it excludes the impact of potential reductions related to the Budget Control Act of 2011, as discussed below. In August, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “2011 Act”) was enacted into law. Included in this law are the imposition of annual spending limits for most federal agencies and programs aimed at reducing budget deficits by $917 billion between 2012 and 2021, according to a report released by the Congressional Budget Office. Among its other provisions, the law established a bipartisan Congressional committee, known as the Joint Committee, which was responsible for developing recommendations aimed at reducing future federal budget deficits by an additional $1.5 trillion over 10 years. The Joint Committee was unable to reach an agreement by the November 23, 2011 deadline and, as a result, across-the-board cuts to discretionary, national defense and Medicare spending were implemented on March 1, 2013 resulting in Medicare payment reductions of up to 2% per fiscal year (approximately $35 million annual reduction to our Medicare net revenues effective as of April 1, 2013) with a uniform percentage reduction across all Medicare programs. On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was enacted which, among other things, includes a requirement for CMS to recoup $11 billion from hospitals from Medicare IPPS rates during federal fiscal years 2014 to 2017. The recoupment relates to IPPS documentation and coding adjustments for the period 2008 to 2013 for which adjustments were not previously applied by CMS. The 2014 IPPS final rule includes a -0.8% recoupment adjustment as the first step in this recovery process. CMS expects to make similar adjustments in federal fiscal years 2015, 2016, and 2017 in order to recover the entire $11 billion. This adjustment is reflected in the 2014 IPPS estimated impact amount noted above. On January 1, 2005, CMS implemented a new Psychiatric Prospective Payment System (“Psych PPS”) for inpatient services furnished by psychiatric hospitals under the Medicare program. This system replaced the cost-based reimbursement guidelines with a per diem Psych PPS with adjustments to account for certain facility and patient characteristics. The Psych PPS also contained provisions for outlier payments and an adjustment to a psychiatric hospital’s base payment if it maintains a full-service emergency department. In April, 2011 CMS 66 Table of Contents published its final Psych PPS rule for the fifteen month period July 1, 2011 to September 30, 2012. The market basket increase for this time period was 2.95%, which included a 0.25% reduction required by the federal Health Care Reform legislation enacted in 2010. In August, 2012, CMS published its final Psych PPS rate notice for the federal fiscal year beginning October 1, 2012. That final notice contained a Psych PPS market basket update of 2.7%, which was reduced by 0.7% to reflect a productivity adjustment, and reduced by 0.1% to reflect an “other adjustment” required by the Social Security Act for rate years 2010 through 2019. In July, 2013, CMS released its final Psych PPS rate notice for the federal fiscal year 2014. The final notice contains a Psych PPS market basket update of 2.6% which is reduced by 0.5% to reflect a productivity adjustment, and reduced by 0.1% to reflect an “other adjustment” required by the Social Security Act. In December, 2013, CMS published its annual final Medicare Outpatient Prospective Payment System (“OPPS”) rule for 2014. The final hospital market basket increase is 2.5%. The Medicare statute requires a productivity adjustment reduction of 0.5% and 0.3% reduction to the 2014 OPPS market basket reducing the final 2014 OPPS market basket update to 1.7%. In the final rule, CMS reduced the 2014 Medicare rates for both hospital-based and community mental health center partial hospitalization programs. When other statutorily required adjustments, hospital patient service mix and the aforementioned partial hospitalization rates are considered, we estimate that our overall Medicare OPPS for 2014 will aggregate to a net increase of 1.4%. Excluding the behavioral health division partial hospitalization rate impact, our Medicare OPPS payment increase for 2014 is estimated to be 2.5%. In November, 2012, CMS published its annual final Medicare OPPS rule for 2013. The market basket increase to the OPPS base rate is 2.6%. In addition, as outlined in the Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform discussion below, CMS is also required by federal law to reduce the update factor by 0.1% in federal fiscal year 2013 and to reduce the annual update by a productivity adjustment which is 0.7%. In the final rule, CMS is also implementing a significant increase in the 2013 Medicare rates for both hospital-based and community mental health center partial hospitalization programs. When other statutorily required adjustments, hospital patient service mix and the aforementioned partial hospitalization rates are considered, our overall Medicare OPPS payment increase for 2013 is estimated to be 3.5%. Excluding the behavioral health division partial hospitalization rate impact, our Medicare OPPS payment increase for 2013 was approximately 1.7%. In November, 2011, CMS published its annual final Medicare OPPS rule for 2012. The market basket increase to the OPPS base rate is 3.0%. In addition, as outlined in the Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform discussion below, CMS is also required by federal law to reduce the update factor by 0.1% in federal fiscal year 2012 and to reduce the annual update by a productivity adjustment which is 1.1%. In the final rule, CMS also implemented a significant decrease in the 2012 Medicare rates for both hospital-based and community mental health center partial hospitalization programs. When other statutorily required adjustments, hospital patient service mix and the aforementioned partial hospitalization rates are considered, our overall Medicare OPPS payment decrease for 2012 was estimated to be approximately 0.7%. Excluding the behavioral health partial hospitalization rate impact, our Medicare OPPS payment increase for 2012 was approximately 2.1%. We entered into an agreement in April, 2012 with the United States Department of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and CMS (referred to collectively as “HHS”) that resulted in an aggregate cash payment to us of approximately $36 million which was received during 2012. After reductions for estimated related expenses and the portion attributable to third-party non-controlling ownership interests, this settlement favorably impacted our 2012 pre-tax consolidated financial results by approximately $30 million (recording during the first quarter of 2012). This agreement was part of an industry-wide settlement with HHS related to litigation that was pending for several years contending that acute care hospitals in the U.S. were underpaid from the Medicare inpatient prospective payment system during a number of prior years. The underpayments resulted from calculations related to rural floor budget neutrality adjustments that were implemented in connection with the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. 67 Table of Contents Medicaid: Medicaid is a joint federal-state funded health care benefit program that is administered by the states to provide benefits to qualifying individuals who are unable to afford care. Most state Medicaid payments are made under a PPS-like system, or under programs that negotiate payment levels with individual hospitals. Amounts received under the Medicaid program are generally significantly less than a hospital’s customary charges for services provided. In addition to revenues received pursuant to the Medicare program, we receive a large portion of our revenues either directly from Medicaid programs or from managed care companies managing Medicaid. All of our acute care hospitals and most of our behavioral health centers are certified as providers of Medicaid services by the appropriate governmental authorities. We receive Medicaid revenues in excess of $90 million annually from each of Texas, Pennsylvania, Washington, D.C., Illinois, Virginia and Massachusetts, making us particularly sensitive to reductions in Medicaid and other state based revenue programs (which have been implemented in various forms with respect to our areas of operation in the respective 2013 state fiscal years) as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. Based upon the state budgets for the 2013 fiscal year (which generally began at various times during the second half of 2012), we estimate that, on a blended basis, our aggregate Medicaid rates were reduced by approximately 1% (or approximately $15 million annually) from the average rates in effect during the states’ 2012 fiscal years (which generally ended during the third quarter of 2012). Based upon the state budgets for the 2014 fiscal year (which will generally began at various times during the second half of 2013), we estimate that, on a blended basis, our aggregate Medicaid rates will remain relatively unchanged from the 2013 fiscal year rates. The Affordable Care Act substantially increases the federally and state-funded Medicaid insurance program, and authorizes states to establish federally subsidized non-Medicaid health plans for low-income residents not eligible for Medicaid starting in 2014. However, the Supreme Court has struck down portions of the Affordable Care Act requiring states to expand their Medicaid programs in exchange for increased federal funding. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that states in which we operate will expand Medicaid coverage to individuals at 133% of the federal poverty level. Facilities in states not opting to expand Medicaid coverage under the Affordable Care Act may be additionally penalized by corresponding reductions to Medicaid disproportionate share hospital payments, as discussed below. We can provide no assurance that further reductions to Medicaid revenues, particularly in the above-mentioned states, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Certain of our acute care hospitals located in various counties of Texas (Hidalgo, Maverick, Potter and Webb) participate in CMS-approved private Medicaid supplemental payment (“UPL”) programs. These hospitals also have affiliation agreements with third-party hospitals to provide free hospital and physician care to qualifying indigent residents of these counties. Our hospitals receive both UPL payments from the Medicaid program and indigent care payments from third-party, affiliated hospitals. The UPL payments are contingent on the county or hospital district making an Inter-Governmental Transfer (“IGT”) to the state Medicaid program while the indigent care payment is contingent on a transfer of funds from the applicable affiliated hospitals. We recorded net UPL and affiliated hospital indigent care revenues of $61 million during 2013, $25 million during 2012 and $31 million during 2011. If the applicable hospital district or county makes IGTs consistent with 2013 levels, and without giving effect to potential reductions resulting from the February, 2013 THHSC proposed rule, which is discussed below, we believe we would be entitled to aggregate net revenues earned pursuant to these programs of approximately $54 million during the state fiscal year state 2014 which ends on September 30, 2014. For state fiscal year 2014, Texas Medicaid will continue to operate under a CMS-approved Section 1115 five-year Medicaid waiver demonstration program. During the first five years of this program that started in state fiscal year 2012, the Texas Health and Human Services Commission (“THHSC”) transitioned away from UPL payments to new waiver incentive payment programs. During the first year of transition, which commenced on October 1, 2011, THHSC made payments to Medicaid UPL recipient providers that received payments during the state’s prior fiscal year. During transition years two through five, THHSC will make incentive payments under the program after certain qualifying criteria are met by hospitals. UPL payments are also subject to an aggregate 68 Table of Contents statewide caps based on CMS approved Medicaid waiver amounts. In February, 2013, THHSC proposed a rule that indicates that any required statewide UPL payment reductions will be applied a pro rata basis to all UPL payment recipients. Although our future UPL payments in Texas may be adversely impacted by this proposed rule, we are unable to estimate the potential impact on us since the amount of the statewide pro rata UPL payment reduction, if any, has not yet been determined by THHSC. We incur health-care related taxes (“Provider Taxes”) imposed by states in the form of a licensing fee, assessment or other mandatory payment which are related to: (i) healthcare items or services; (ii) the provision of, or the authority to provide, the health care items of services, or; (iii) the payment for the health care items or services. Such Provider Taxes are subject to various federal regulations that limit the scope and amount of the taxes that can be levied by states in order to secure federal matching dollars as part of their respective state Medicaid programs. We derive a related Medicaid reimbursement benefit from assessed Provider Taxes in the form of Medicaid claims based payment increases and/or lump sum Medicaid supplemental payments. Including the impact of the California, Oklahoma, Indiana and Ohio programs that were initiated during 2013 or 2012, as mentioned below, we earned an aggregate net benefit of approximately $69 million during 2013, $58 million during 2012 (of which $12 million related to 2011) and $26 million during 2011 from Medicaid supplemental payments, after assessed Provider Taxes were considered. We estimate that our aggregate net benefit from Provider Tax programs will approximate $46 million during 2014. The aggregate net benefit is earned from multiple states and therefore no particular state’s portion is individually material to our consolidated financial statements. However, Provider Taxes are governed by both federal and state laws and are subject to future legislative changes that, if reduced from current rates in several states, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated future results of operations. In California, a Medicaid state plan amendment (“SPA”) was submitted to CMS by the state requesting and extension of a prior provider tax and related Medicaid supplemental payment program retroactive to July 1, 2011 through December 31, 2013. In June, 2012, CMS approved a portion of the SPA which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements during 2013 or 2012. In June, 2013, CMS approved the Medicaid managed care component of the SPA covering the period of July 1, 2011 through June 30, 2013. The net aggregate benefit for the period of July 1, 2011 through June 30, 2013 was $11 million (of which $8 million was applicable to prior years) which was included in our financial results during the second quarter of 2013. The SPA noted above covering the six month period July 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013 is still subject to CMS approval. Similarly, in October, 2013 the state of California enacted new legislation (SB 239) that would continue the provider tax and related Medicaid supplemental payment program for three years effective January 1, 2014 and likewise is subject to CMS approval. As such, if these CMS approvals are obtained by the state, the program impact will be retroactive to July 1, 2013. Although we cannot predict whether or not CMS will ultimately approve these additional programs (covering the period of July 1, 2013 through December 31, 2016), if approved by CMS, we estimate the average pre-tax favorable impact on our results of operations to be approximately $10 million annually. In January, 2012, the state of Oklahoma was granted federal approval by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) for the Supplemental Hospital Offset Payment Program (“SHOPP”) which grants the Oklahoma Health Care Authority the authority to assess a 2.5% fee on certain Oklahoma hospitals and to make Medicaid supplemental payments to hospitals through December 31, 2014, retroactive to July 1, 2011. The state finalized the initial supplemental payment program amounts in March, 2012 and our 2012 pre-tax consolidated financial results were favorably impacted by approximately $21 million in connection with the SHOPP program covering the period of July 1, 2011 through December 31, 2012. During the second quarter of 2012, new supplemental Medicaid programs were initiated in Indiana and Ohio in which we operate behavioral health care facilities. Our 2012 pre-tax consolidated financial results were favorably impacted by approximately $14 million recorded in connection with these programs which were retroactive to July, 2011. 69 Table of Contents State Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital Payments: Hospitals that have an unusually large number of low-income patients (i.e., those with a Medicaid utilization rate of at least one standard deviation above the mean Medicaid utilization, or having a low income patient utilization rate exceeding 25%) are eligible to receive a disproportionate share hospital (“DSH”) adjustment. Congress established a national limit on DSH adjustments. Although this legislation and the resulting state broad-based provider taxes have affected the payments we receive under the Medicaid program, to date the net impact has not been materially adverse. Upon meeting certain conditions and serving a disproportionately high share of Texas’ and South Carolina’s low income patients, five of our facilities located in Texas and one facility located in South Carolina received additional reimbursement from each state’s DSH fund. The South Carolina and Texas DSH programs were renewed for each state’s 2014 DSH fiscal year (covering the period of October 1, 2013 through September 30, 2014). In September, 2013, the THHSC published its 2013 final DSH rule that included changes that resulted in approximately $9 million of additional reimbursements to our acute care facilities located in Texas applicable to the state’s 2013 fiscal year (which were included in our 2013 pre-tax consolidated financial results). In connection with these DSH programs, included in our financial results was an aggregate of $54 million during 2013, $47 million during 2012 and $45 million during 2011. Assuming that the Texas and South Carolina programs are renewed for each state’s 2015 fiscal years, at amounts similar to the 2014 fiscal year estimates, we estimate our aggregate reimbursements pursuant to these programs to be approximately $49 million during 2014. Failure to renew these DSH programs beyond their scheduled termination dates, failure of the public hospitals to provide the necessary IGTs for the states’ share of the DSH programs, failure of our hospitals that currently receive DSH payments to qualify for future DSH funds under these programs, or reductions in reimbursements (see below), could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. The Affordable Care Act provides for a significant reduction in Medicaid disproportionate share payments beginning in 2016 (see below in Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform-Medicaid Revisions for additional disclosure). The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services is to determine the amount of Medicaid DSH payment cuts imposed on each state based on a defined methodology. As Medicaid DSH payments to states will be cut, consequently, payments to Medicaid-participating providers, including our hospitals in Texas and South Carolina, will likely be reduced in the coming years. Based on the September, 2013 CMS final rule, our Medicaid DSH payments in Texas and South Carolina could be reduced by approximately 4% in the 2016 federal fiscal year. This statutorily required reduction was originally scheduled to be implemented in federal fiscal year 2014 but was delayed to FFY 2016 by the Pathway for SGR Reform Act of 2013. In May, 2013 the state of Texas enacted legislation that would increase the state’s contribution of the non-federal DSH share for the 2013 DSH year to $138 million as compared to the $100 million previously expected. Similarly, the state’s approved 2014-2015 General Appropriations bill passed in May, 2013 authorized $160 million for 2014 and $140 million for 2015, respectively, for the non-federal DSH share. We expect the 2014 and 2015 DSH year amounts to be comparable to the 2013 DSH year amounts. HITECH Act: In July 2010, the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) published final regulations implementing the health information technology (“HIT”) provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (referred to as the “HITECH Act”). The final regulation defines the “meaningful use” of Electronic Health Records (“EHR”) and establishes the requirements for the Medicare and Medicaid EHR payment incentive programs. The final rule established an initial set of standards and certification criteria. The implementation period for these new Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments started in federal fiscal year 2011 and can end as late as 2016 for Medicare and 2021 for the state Medicaid programs. State Medicaid program participation in this federally funded incentive program is voluntary but we expect that all of the states in which our eligible hospitals operate will ultimately choose to participate. Our acute care hospitals may qualify for these EHR incentive payments upon implementation of the EHR application assuming they meet the “meaningful use” criteria. The government’s ultimate goal is to promote more effective (quality) and efficient healthcare delivery through the use of technology to reduce the total cost of healthcare for all Americans and utilizing the cost savings to expand access to the healthcare system. 70 Table of Contents During 2011, we began implementing EHR applications at certain of our acute care hospitals and continued to do so, on a hospital-by-hospital basis, until completion which occurred at the end of June, 2013. Our acute care hospitals are eligible for Medicare and Medicaid EHR incentive payments upon implementation of the EHR application, once they have demonstrated meaningful use of certified EHR technology for the applicable stage or have completed attestations to their adoption or implementation of certified EHR technology. With the exception of the newly constructed and recently opened Temecula Valley Hospital, we believe that all of our acute care hospitals have met the stage 1, year one meaningful use criteria. Our 2013 consolidated results of operations includes a favorable pre-tax impact of approximately $19 million consisting of approximately $61 million of EHR incentive income less approximately $10 million of salaries, wages, benefits and other operating expenses, approximately $33 million of depreciation and amortization expense, plus approximately $1 million of net expense attributable to noncontrolling interests. Our 2012 consolidated results of operations includes a favorable pre-tax impact of approximately $3 million consisting of approximately $30 million of EHR incentive income less approximately $15 million of salaries, wages, benefits and other operating expenses, approximately $13 million of depreciation and amortization expense, plus approximately $1 million of net expense attributable to noncontrolling interests. Federal regulations require that Medicare EHR incentive payments be computed based on the Medicare cost report that begins in the federal fiscal period in which a hospital meets the applicable “meaningful use” requirements. Since the annual Medicare cost report periods for each of our acute care hospitals ends on December 31 st , we will recognize Medicare EHR incentive income for each hospital during the fourth quarter of the year in which the facility meets the “meaningful use” criteria and during the fourth quarter of each applicable subsequent year. Hospitals that do not qualify as a meaningful user of EHR by 2015 are subject to a reduced market basket update to the IPPS standardized amount in 2015 and each subsequent fiscal year. Although we believe that our acute care hospitals will be in compliance with the EHR standards by 2015, there can be no assurance that all of our facilities will be in compliance and therefore not subject to the penalty provision of the HITECH Act. Managed Care: A significant portion of our net patient revenues are generated from managed care companies, which include health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and managed Medicare (referred to as Medicare Part C or Medicare Advantage) and Medicaid programs. In general, we expect the percentage of our business from managed care programs to continue to grow. The consequent growth in managed care networks and the resulting impact of these networks on the operating results of our facilities vary among the markets in which we operate. Typically, we receive lower payments per patient from managed care payors than we do from traditional indemnity insurers, however, during the past few years we have secured price increases from many of our commercial payors including managed care companies. Commercial Insurance: Our hospitals also provide services to individuals covered by private health care insurance. Private insurance carriers typically make direct payments to hospitals or, in some cases, reimburse their policy holders, based upon the particular hospital’s established charges and the particular coverage provided in the insurance policy. Private insurance reimbursement varies among payors and states and is generally based on contracts negotiated between the hospital and the payor. Commercial insurers are continuing efforts to limit the payments for hospital services by adopting discounted payment mechanisms, including predetermined payment or DRG-based payment systems, for more inpatient and outpatient services. To the extent that such efforts are successful and reduce the insurers’ reimbursement to hospitals and the costs of providing services to their beneficiaries, such reduced levels of reimbursement may have a negative impact on the operating results of our hospitals. Other Sources: Our hospitals provide services to individuals that do not have any form of health care coverage. Such patients are evaluated, at the time of service or shortly thereafter, for their ability to pay based 71 Table of Contents upon federal and state poverty guidelines, qualifications for Medicaid or other state assistance programs, as well as our local hospitals’ indigent and charity care policy. Patients without health care coverage who do not qualify for Medicaid or indigent care write-offs are offered substantial discounts in an effort to settle their outstanding account balances. Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform: Given increasing budget deficits, the federal government and many states are currently considering additional ways to limit increases in levels of Medicare and Medicaid funding, which could also adversely affect future payments received by our hospitals. In addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon the federal government as a result of, among other things, the War on Terrorism, economic recovery stimulus packages, responses to natural disasters, the expansion of a Medicare drug benefit and the federal budget deficit in general may affect the availability of federal funds to provide additional relief in the future. We are unable to predict the effect of future policy changes on our operations. In March, 2010, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (H.R. 4872, P.L. 111-152), (the “Reconciliation Act”) and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (P.L. 111-148), (the “Affordable Care Act”), were enacted into law and created significant changes to health insurance coverage for U.S. citizens as well as material revisions to the federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs. Medicare, Medicaid and other health care industry changes which are scheduled to be implemented at various times during this decade are noted below. Implemented Medicare Reductions and Reforms: Medicaid Revisions: 72 Table of Contents Health Insurance Revisions: The Affordable Care Act will seek to increase competition among private health insurers by providing for transparent federal and state insurance exchanges starting in 2014. The Affordable Care Act also prohibits private insurers from adjusting insurance premiums based on health status, gender, or other specified factors. We cannot provide assurance that these provisions will not adversely affect the ability of private insurers to pay for services provided to insured patients, or that these changes will not have a negative material impact on our results of operations going forward. Value-Based Purchasing: There is a trend in the healthcare industry toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services. These value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. Governmental programs including Medicare and Medicaid currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition, Medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events. Many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. The Affordable Care Act contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing. The Affordable Care Act prohibits the use of federal funds under the Medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hospital acquired conditions (“HAC”). Beginning in FFY 2015, hospitals that fall into the top 25% of national risk-adjusted HAC rates for all hospitals in the previous year will receive a 1% reduction in their total Medicare payments. Hospitals with excessive readmissions for conditions designated by HHS will receive reduced payments for all inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excessive readmission standard. The Affordable Care Act also required HHS to implement a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services which became effective on October 1, 2012. The Affordable Care Act requires HHS to reduce inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by a percentage beginning at 1% in FFY 2013 and increasing by 0.25% each fiscal year up to 2% in FFY 2017 and subsequent years. HHS will pool the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by HHS. HHS will determine the amount each hospital that meets or exceeds the quality performance standards will receive from the pool of dollars created by these payment reductions. In its fiscal year 2014 IPPS final rule, CMS will fund the 2014 value-based purchasing program by reducing base operating DRG payment amounts to participating hospitals by 1.25%. Readmission Reduction Program: In the Affordable Care Act, Congress also mandated implementation of the hospital readmission reduction program (“HRRP”). The HRRP assesses penalties on hospitals having excess readmission rates when compared to expected rates, effective for discharges beginning October 1, 2012. In the fiscal year 2013 IPPS final rule, 73 Table of Contents CMS finalized certain policies with regard to payment under the HRRP, including which hospitals are subject to the HRRP, the methodology to calculate the hospital readmission payment adjustment factor, and what portion of the IPPS payment is used to calculate the readmission adjustment factor. In the fiscal year 2014 IPPS final rule, CMS finalized revisions to the three 30-day admission measures in the program – heart failure, myocardial infarction, and pneumonia – to exclude planned readmissions. Under the Affordable Care Act, beginning in fiscal year 2015, CMS will expand the program and add two readmission measures, one, acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and, two, patients admitted for elective total hip arthroplasty (THA) and total knee arthroplasty (TKA). We do not believe impact of HRRP for federal fiscal years 2013 and 2014 had or will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Accountable Care Organizations: The Affordable Care Act requires HHS to establish a Medicare Shared Savings Program that promotes accountability and coordination of care through the creation of accountable care organizations (“ACOs”). The ACO program allows providers (including hospitals), physicians and other designated professionals and suppliers to voluntarily work together to invest in infrastructure and redesign delivery processes to achieve high quality and efficient delivery of services. The program is intended to produce savings as a result of improved quality and operational efficiency. ACOs that achieve quality performance standards established by HHS will be eligible to share in a portion of the amounts saved by the Medicare program. In addition to statutory and regulatory changes to the Medicare and each of the state Medicaid programs, our operations and reimbursement may be affected by administrative rulings, new or novel interpretations and determinations of existing laws and regulations, post-payment audits, requirements for utilization review and new governmental funding restrictions, all of which may materially increase or decrease program payments as well as affect the cost of providing services and the timing of payments to our facilities. The final determination of amounts we receive under the Medicare and Medicaid programs often takes many years, because of audits by the program representatives, providers’ rights of appeal and the application of numerous technical reimbursement provisions. We believe that we have made adequate provisions for such potential adjustments. Nevertheless, until final adjustments are made, certain issues remain unresolved and previously determined allowances could become either inadequate or more than ultimately required. Finally, we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. Reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. Other Operating Results Combined net revenues and income/losses before income taxes from our surgical hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers and radiation oncology centers did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations during 2013, 2012 or 2011. 74 Table of Contents Interest Expense Below is a schedule of our interest expense during 2013, 2012 and 2011 (amounts in thousands): Interest expense decreased $33 million during 2013 to $146 million as compared to $179 million during 2012. The decrease was due primarily to: (i) a $21 million decrease in aggregate interest expense on our revolving credit and demand notes, term loan facilities and accounts receivable securitization program due primarily to a decrease in our aggregate average cost of borrowings pursuant to these facilities, as discussed below; (ii) a $5 million decrease in the amortization of financing fees, and; (iii) other combined net decrease of $7 million consisting primarily of interest earned by us on delayed cash remittances paid to us from Illinois. The aggregate average outstanding borrowings under our credit agreement (consisting of the revolving credit, Term Loan A, Term Loan B/B-1 and Term Loan A2 facilities), demand notes and accounts receivable securitization program were $2.9 billion during each of 2013 and 2012. The average effective interest rate on these facilities, excluding the amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts and designated interest rate swap expense was 2.2% during 2013 and 2.9% during 2012. The average effective interest rate on 75 Table of Contents these facilities, including amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts and designated interest rate swap expense was 3.6% during 2013 and 4.5% during 2012. Interest expense decreased $22 million during 2012 to $179 million as compared to $201 million during 2011. The decreased interest expense during 2012 was due primarily to: (i) a $29 million decrease in interest expense due primarily to a decrease in our average effective borrowing rate (due in part to the repayment of the $200 million, 6.75% Senior Notes in November, 2011, utilizing borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit agreement which are borrowed at a lower interest rate and, as mentioned above in (a.)), the extinguishment (during the third quarter of 2012) of $700 million of borrowings pursuant to our Term Loan B with proceeds from the new Term Loan A2 which are borrowed at a lower interest rate; (ii) a $5 million decrease in interest expense due to an increase in interest being capitalized on major construction projects, partially offset by; (iii) a $12 million increase in interest expense due to an increase in our net interest rate swap expense. The aggregate average outstanding borrowings under our credit agreement (consisting of the revolving credit, Term Loan A, Term Loan B and Term Loan A2 facilities), demand notes and accounts receivable securitization program were $2.9 billion during each of 2012 and 2011. The average effective interest rate on these facilities, including amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts and designated interest rate swap expense was 4.5% during 2012 and 4.6% during 2011. The average effective interest rate on these facilities, excluding the amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts and designated interest rate swap expense was 2.9% during 2012 and 3.4% during 2011. Transaction Costs During 2012, we incurred approximately $6 million of transaction costs in connection with our acquisition of 9 behavioral health facilities acquired from Ascend Health Corporation in October, 2012. These costs consisted primarily of legal, investment banking and consulting fees. There were no material transaction fees incurred in 2013 or 2011. Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rates The effective tax rates, as calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by income before income taxes, were as follows for each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 (dollar amounts in thousands): Outside owners hold various noncontrolling, minority ownership interests in seven of our acute care facilities and one behavioral health care facility. Each of these facilities are owned and operated by limited liability companies (“LLC”) or limited partnerships (“LP”). As a result, since there is no income tax liability incurred at the LLC/LP level (since it passes through to the members/partners), the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests does not include any income tax provision/benefit. When computing the provision for income taxes, as reflected on our consolidated statements of income, the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is deducted from income before income taxes since it represents the third-party members’/partners’ share of the income generated by the joint-venture entities. In addition to providing the effective tax rates, as indicated above (as calculated from dividing the provision for income taxes by the income before income taxes as reflected on the consolidated statements of income), we believe it is helpful to our investors that we also provide our effective tax rate as calculated after giving effect to the portion of our pre-tax income that is attributable to the third-party members/partners. 76 Table of Contents The effective tax rates, as calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by the difference in income before income taxes, minus net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, were as follows for each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 (dollar amounts in thousands): The impact of the discrete tax items did not have a material impact on our provision for income taxes during 2013, 2012 or 2011. Discontinued Operations In connection with the receipt of antitrust clearance from the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) in connection with our acquisition of Ascend Health Corporation in October of 2012, we agreed to certain conditions, including the divestiture of Peak Behavioral Health Services (“Peak”), a 104-bed behavioral health care facility located in Santa Teresa, New Mexico. The divestiture of Peak was completed during the second quarter of 2013 for total cash proceeds of approximately $24 million resulting in a pre-tax gain of approximately $3 million which is included in our 2013 consolidated financial statements. In October of 2012, we completed the divestiture of Auburn Regional Medical Center (“Auburn”), a 159-bed acute care hospital located in Auburn, Washington, for total cash proceeds of approximately $93 million. This divestiture resulted in a pre-tax gain of $26 million which was included in our 2012 consolidated financial statements. In connection with the receipt of antitrust clearance from the FTC in connection with our acquisition of PSI in November, 2010, we agreed to divest three former PSI facilities as well as one of our legacy behavioral health facilities in Puerto Rico. Pursuant to the terms of our agreement with the FTC, we divested: The operating results for Auburn, Peak and the three former PSI facilities located in Delaware and Nevada are reflected as discontinued operations during our period of ownership during each of the years presented herein. Since the aggregate income from discontinued operations before income tax expense for these facilities is not material to our consolidated financial statements, it is included as a reduction to other operating expenses. Assets and liabilities for Peak were reflected as “held for sale” on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2012. 77 Table of Contents The following table shows the results of operations for Auburn and Peak and the former PSI facilities located in Delaware and Nevada, on a combined basis, which were reflected as discontinued operations during our period of ownership for each of the years presented herein (amounts in thousands): Effects of Inflation and Seasonality Seasonality —Our acute care services business is typically seasonal, with higher patient volumes and net patient service revenue in the first and fourth quarters of the year. This seasonality occurs because, generally, more people become ill during the winter months, which results in significant increases in the number of patients treated in our hospitals during those months. Inflation —Inflation has not had a material impact on our results of operations over the last three years. However, since the healthcare industry is very labor intensive and salaries and benefits are subject to inflationary pressures, as are supply and other costs, we cannot predict the impact that future economic conditions may have on our ability to contain future expense increases. Our ability to pass on increased costs associated with providing healthcare to Medicare and Medicaid patients is limited due to various federal, state and local laws which have been enacted that, in certain cases, limit our ability to increase prices. We believe, however, that through adherence to cost containment policies, labor management and reasonable price increases, the effects of inflation on future operating margins should be manageable. Liquidity Year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to December 31, 2012: Net cash provided by operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $884 million during 2013 and $799 million during 2012. The net increase of $85 million was primarily attributable to the following: 78 Table of Contents Days sales outstanding (“DSO”): Our DSO are calculated by dividing our net revenue by the number of days in the year. The result is divided into the accounts receivable balance the end of the year. Our DSO were 56 days at each of December 31, 2013 and 2012 and 51 days at December 31, 2011. Net cash used in investing activities Net cash used in investing activities was $383 million during 2013 as compared to $790 million during 2012. 2013: The $383 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2013 consisted of $358 million spent on capital expenditures, $13 million spent on the acquisition of property and businesses, $37 million received from the sale of assets and businesses and $50 million spent in connection with the purchase and implementation of an electronic health records application (“EHR”). Please see Item 7-Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-HITECH Act for additional disclosure related to the EHR implementation. 2013 Capital Expenditures: During 2013, we spent $358 million to finance capital expenditures including the following: 2013 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses: During 2013, we spent $13 million for the purchase of real property located in Pennsylvania, Nevada and Arizona. 2013 Divestiture of Assets and Businesses: During 2013, we received $37 million in connection with the divestiture of Peak Behavioral Health Services and certain other assets and real property including three previously closed behavioral health care facilities. 2012: The $790 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2012 consisted of $363 million spent on capital expenditures, $528 million spent on acquisitions, $149 million received from the sale of assets and businesses, $54 million spent in connection with the purchase and implementation of EHR applications, and $6 million received from a deposit returned to us in connection with the termination of an agreement to purchase an acute care hospital located in Texas. 2012 Capital Expenditures: During 2012, we spent $363 million to finance capital expenditures, including the following: 79 Table of Contents 2012 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses: During 2012, we spent $528 million to acquire the following assets and businesses: 2012 Divestiture of Assets and Businesses: During 2012, we received $149 million from the divestiture of assets and businesses, including the following: Net cash used in/provided by financing activities Net cash used in financing activities was $507 million during 2013 and $27 million during 2012. 2013: The $507 million of net cash used in financing activities consisted of the following: 80 Table of Contents 2012: The $27 million of net cash used in financing activities consisted of the following: Year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to December 31, 2011: Net cash provided by operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $799 million during 2012 and $711 million during 2011. The net increase of $88 million was primarily attributable to the following: 81 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities Net cash used in investing activities was $790 million during 2012 as compared to $286 million during 2011. The factors contributing to the $790 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2012 are detailed above. 2011: The $286 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2011 consisted of $286 million spent on capital expenditures, $29 million spent on acquisitions, $68 million received from the sale of assets and businesses and $38 million spent in connection with the purchase and implementation of EHR applications. 2011 Capital Expenditures: During 2011, we spent $286 million to finance capital expenditures, including the following: 2011 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses: 2011 Divestiture of Assets and Businesses: During 2011, we received $68 million from the divestiture of assets and businesses, including the following: Net cash used in/provided by financing activities Net cash used in financing activities was $27 million during 2012 and $413 million during 2011. The factors contributing to the $27 million of net cash used in financing activities during 2012 are detailed above. 2011: The $413 million of net cash used in financing activities consisted of the following: 82 Table of Contents 2014 Expected Capital Expenditures: During 2014, we expect to spend approximately $360 million to $385 million on capital expenditures which includes expenditures for capital equipment, renovations, new projects at existing hospitals and construction of new facilities. Approximately $155 million of our 2014 expected capital expenditures relates to completion of projects that are in progress as of December 31, 2013. We believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. We expect to finance all capital expenditures and acquisitions with internally generated funds and/or additional funds, as discussed below. Capital Resources Credit Facilities and Outstanding Debt Securities In May, 2013, we entered into a third amendment (the “Third Amendment”) to the credit agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010 (as amended from time to time, the “Credit Agreement”), which became effective that day, among UHS, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and the other agents party thereto. The Third Amendment provides for a reduction in the interest rates payable in connection with certain borrowings under the Credit Agreement. Upon the effectiveness of the Third Amendment, UHS replaced its existing $745.9 million senior secured Tranche B term loan with a new senior secured Tranche B-1 term loan in the same amount on substantially the same terms as the Tranche B term loan, other than lower interest rates. Borrowings under the Tranche B-1 term loan bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our election, one, two, three or six month LIBOR, plus an applicable margin of 2.25% or ABR plus an applicable margin of 1.25%. The minimum LIBOR and ABR rates for the Tranche B term loan of 1.0% and 2.0%, respectively, were eliminated. In September, 2012, we entered into a second amendment (“Second Amendment”) to our Credit Agreement which provided for: (i) a new $900 million Term Loan-A (“Term Loan A2”) at the same interest rates as our existing Term Loan A and a final maturity date of August 15, 2016; (ii) the extension of the maturity date on a substantial portion of our $800 million revolving credit facility commitment with $777 million of the commitment extended to mature on August 15, 2016 and the remaining $23 million commitment scheduled to mature on November 15, 2015 (there were no borrowings outstanding pursuant to our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2013), and; (iii) the extension of the maturity date on a substantial portion of our Term Loan-A borrowings which, based upon the outstanding Term Loan-A borrowings as of December 31, 2013, $892 million is scheduled to mature on August 15, 2016 and the remaining $43 million is scheduled to mature on November 15, 2015. The Second Amendment also provides for increased flexibility for refinancing and certain other modifications but substantially all other terms of the Credit Agreement remain unchanged. 83 Table of Contents In September, 2012, we used $700 million of the proceeds from the new Term Loan A2 facility to extinguish a portion of our higher priced, Term Loan-B facility. Pricing under the new Term Loan A2 facility was 1% lower than the Term Loan-B facility and did not include a LIBOR Floor whereas, at that time, the Term Loan-B facility had a 1% LIBOR Floor (which has since been eliminated as part of the above-mentioned Third Amendment in May, 2013). During the third quarter of 2012, in connection with the extinguishment of a portion of our Term Loan-B facility, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $29 million to write-off the related portion of the Term Loan-B deferred financing costs. The Credit Agreement, as amended, is a senior secured facility which, as of December 31, 2013, provided for an aggregate commitment amount of $3.16 billion, comprised of an $800 million revolving credit facility, a $939 million Term Loan-A facility, a $550 million Term Loan-B facility and a $872 million Term Loan-A2 facility. The revolving credit facility includes a $125 million sub-limit for letters of credit. The Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and our material subsidiaries and guaranteed by our material subsidiaries. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at either (1) the ABR rate which is defined as the rate per annum equal to, at our election: the greatest of (a) the lender’s prime rate, (b) the weighted average of the federal funds rate, plus 0.5% and (c) one month LIBOR rate plus 1%, in each case, plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 0.50% to 1.25% for revolving credit, Term Loan-A and Term Loan-A2 borrowings and 1.25% for Term Loan B borrowings or (2) the one, two, three or six month LIBOR rate (at our election), plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 1.50% to 2.25% for revolving credit, Term Loan-A and Term Loan-A2 borrowings and 2.25% for Term Loan-B borrowings. The current applicable margins are 0.50% for ABR-based loans, 1.50% for LIBOR-based loans under the revolving credit, Term Loan-A and Term Loan-A2 facilities and 2.25% under the Term Loan-B facility. As of December 31, 2013, we had no borrowings outstanding pursuant to the terms of our $800 million revolving credit facility and we had $755 million of available borrowing capacity, net of $25 million of outstanding borrowings pursuant to a short-term, on-demand credit facility and $20 million of outstanding letters of credit. During 2013, we made scheduled principal payments of $72 million on the Term Loan-A and Term Loan A2 facilities. Quarterly installment payments (“Installment Payments”) are due on the Term Loan-A and Term Loan-A2 facilities which approximate $72 million in 2014, $77 million in 2015 and $46 million in 2016. The Installment Payments due on the Term Loan-A and Term Loan-A2 facilities during 2014 are classified as current maturities of long-term debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2013. Although no Installment Payments are due on the Term Loan-B facility, we made optional repayments of $196 million during the fourth quarter of 2013. In October, 2013 our $275 million accounts receivable securitization program (“Securitization”) with a group of conduit lenders and liquidity banks was amended to extend the maturity date to October 25, 2016 and reduce the interest rate spread and commitment fee. Substantially all of the patient-related accounts receivable of our acute care hospitals (“Receivables”) serve as collateral for the outstanding borrowings. We have accounted for this Securitization as borrowings. We maintain effective control over the Receivables since, pursuant to the terms of the Securitization, the Receivables are sold from certain of our subsidiaries to special purpose entities that are wholly-owned by us. The Receivables, however, are owned by the special purpose entities, can be used only to satisfy the debts of the wholly-owned special purpose entities, and thus are not available to us except through our ownership interest in the special purpose entities. The wholly-owned special purpose entities use the Receivables to collateralize the loans obtained from the group of third-party conduit lenders and liquidity banks. The group of third-party conduit lenders and liquidity banks do not have recourse to us beyond the assets of the wholly-owned special purpose entities that securitize the loans. At December 31, 2013, we had $240 million of outstanding borrowings and $35 million of additional capacity pursuant to the terms of our accounts receivable securitization program. 84 Table of Contents Our $250 million, 7.00% senior unsecured notes (the “Unsecured Notes”) are scheduled to mature on October 1, 2018. The Unsecured Notes were issued on September 29, 2010 and registered in April, 2011. Interest on the Unsecured Note is payable semiannually in arrears on April 1st and October 1st of each year. The Unsecured Notes can be redeemed in whole at anytime subject to a make-whole call at treasury rate plus 50 basis points prior to October 1, 2014. They are also redeemable in whole or in part at a price of: (i) 103.5% on or after October 1, 2014; (ii) 101.75% on or after October 1, 2015, and; (iii) 100% on or after October 1, 2016. These Unsecured Notes are guaranteed by a group of subsidiaries (each of which is a 100% directly or indirectly owned subsidiary of Universal Health Services, Inc.) which fully and unconditionally guarantee the Unsecured Notes on a joint and several basis, subject to certain customary automatic release provisions. On June 30, 2006, we issued $250 million of senior notes which have a 7.125% coupon rate and mature on June 30, 2016 (the “7.125% Notes”). Interest on the 7.125% Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on June 30th and December 30th of each year. In June, 2008, we issued an additional $150 million of 7.125% Notes which formed a single series with the original 7.125% Notes issued in June, 2006. Other than their date of issuance and initial price to the public, the terms of the 7.125% Notes issued in June, 2008 are identical to and trade interchangeably with, the 7.125% Notes which were originally issued in June, 2006. In connection with the entering into of the Credit Agreement on November 15, 2010, and in accordance with the Indenture dated January 20, 2000 governing the rights of our existing notes, we entered into a supplemental indenture pursuant to which our 7.125% Notes (due in 2016) were equally and ratably secured with the lenders under the Credit Agreement with respect to the collateral for so long as the lenders under the Credit Agreement are so secured. The average amounts outstanding during each of years 2013, 2012 and 2011 under the current and prior Credit Agreements, demand notes and accounts receivable securitization programs was $2.9 billion, with corresponding interest rates of 2.2%, 2.9% and 3.4% including commitment and facility fees. The maximum amounts outstanding at any month-end were $3.00 billion in 2013, $3.06 billion in 2012 and $3.03 billion in 2011. The effective interest rate on our current and prior Credit Agreements, accounts receivable securitization programs, and demand notes, which includes the respective interest expense, commitment and facility fees, designated interest rate swaps expense and amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts, was 3.6% in 2013, 4.5% in 2012 and 4.6% in 2011. Our Credit Agreement includes a material adverse change clause that must be represented at each draw. The Credit Agreement contains covenants that include a limitation on sales of assets, mergers, change of ownership, liens and indebtedness, transactions with affiliates and dividends; and requires compliance with financial covenants including maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios. We are in compliance with all required covenants as of December 31, 2013. The carrying values of our debt at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $3.3 billion and $3.7 billion, respectively. The fair values of our debt at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $3.4 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively. The fair value of our debt was computed based upon quotes received from financial institutions. We consider these to be “level 2” in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with debt instruments. Our total debt as a percentage of total capitalization was 51% at December 31, 2013 and 58% at December 31, 2012. We expect to finance all capital expenditures and acquisitions, pay dividends and potentially repurchase shares of our common stock utilizing internally generated and additional funds. Additional funds may be obtained through: (i) the issuance of equity; (ii) borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility or through refinancing the existing revolving credit agreement, and/or; (iii) the issuance of other long-term debt. We believe that our operating cash flows, cash and cash equivalents, available borrowing capacity under our $800 million 85 Table of Contents revolving credit facility and access to the capital markets provide us with sufficient capital resources to fund our operating, investing and financing requirements for the next twelve months. However, in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. Our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2013 we were party to certain off balance sheet arrangements consisting of standby letters of credit and surety bonds which totaled $85 million consisting of: (i) $69 million related to our self-insurance programs, and; (ii) $16 million of other debt and public utility guarantees. Obligations under operating leases for real property, real property master leases and equipment amount to $307 million as of December 31, 2013. The real property master leases are leases for buildings on or near hospital property for which we guarantee a certain level of rental income. We sublease space in these buildings and any amounts received from these subleases are offset against the expense. In addition, we lease four hospital facilities from the Trust with terms expiring in 2014 and 2016. These leases contain up to three 5-year renewal options. We also lease the real property of certain facilities acquired by us in connection with the acquisition of PSI in November, 2010 and Ascend Health Corporation in October, 2012. The following represents the scheduled maturities of our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2013: 86 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2013, the total accrual for our professional and general liability claims was $206 million, of which $44 million is included in other current liabilities and $162 million is included in other non-current liabilities. We exclude the $206 million for professional and general liability claims from the contractual obligations table because there are no significant contractual obligations associated with these liabilities and because of the uncertainty of the dollar amounts to be ultimately paid as well as the timing of such payments. Please see Self-Insured Risks above for additional disclosure related to our professional and general liability claims and reserves. In connection with five acute care facilities located in Las Vegas, Nevada, the minority ownership interests of which are reflected as redeemable noncontrolling interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, the outside owners have certain “put rights”, that are currently exercisable, that if exercised, require us to purchase the minority member’s interests at fair market value. The put rights are exercisable upon the occurrence of: (i) certain specified financial conditions falling below established thresholds; (ii) breach of the management contract by the managing member (a subsidiary of ours), or; (iii) if the minority member’s ownership percentage is reduced to less than certain thresholds. In connection with a behavioral health care facility located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and acquired by us as part of the PSI acquisition, the minority ownership interest of which is also reflected as redeemable noncontrolling interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, the outside owner has a “put option” to put its entire ownership interest to us at any time. If exercised, the put option requires us to purchase the minority member’s interest at fair market value. As of December 31, 2013, we believe the fair market value of the minority ownership interests in these facilities, pursuant to the terms of the put options, approximates the $218 million aggregate book value of the redeemable noncontrolling interests. We exclude the approximate amount that we may be required to pay to repurchase these minority ownership interests from the contractual obligations table because of the uncertainty as to: (i) whether or not the put rights will actually be exercised; (ii) the dollar amounts that would be paid if the put rights were exercised, and; (iii) the timing of such payments. Additionally, the table above does not include $3 million of the total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2013. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of potential cash flows, we cannot reasonably estimate the settlement periods for which the amounts may be utilized. 87 Table of Contents We manage our ratio of fixed and floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. To manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. We account for our derivative and hedging activities using the Financial Accounting Standard Board’s (“FASB”) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. For derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. Derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. Cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) within shareholders’ equity. Amounts are reclassified from AOCI to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. We use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. Such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of the change in expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized currently in the income statement. For hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge’s inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future. The fair value of interest rate swap agreements approximates the amount at which they could be settled, based on estimates obtained from the counterparties. We assess the effectiveness of our hedge instruments on a quarterly basis. We performed periodic assessments of the cash flow hedge instruments during 2013 and 2012 and determined the hedges to be highly effective. We also determined that any portion of the hedges deemed to be ineffective was de minimis and therefore there was no material effect on our consolidated financial position, operations or cash flows. The counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance. However, at December 31, 2013, each swap agreement entered into by us was in a net liability position which would require us to make the net settlement payments to the counterparties. We do not anticipate nonperformance by our counterparties. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. During 2011, we entered into a forward starting interest rate cap on a total notional amount of $450 million from December, 2011 to December, 2012 reducing to $400 million from December, 2012 to December, 2013 whereby we paid a premium of $740,000 in exchange for the counterparty agreeing to pay the difference between 7.00% and three-month LIBOR if the three-month LIBOR rate rises above 7.00% during the term of the cap. The three-month LIBOR never reached 7.00% during the term of the cap, which expired in December, 2013, and therefore no payment was made to us. We also entered into six forward starting interest rate swaps in 2011 whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $425 million and receive three-month LIBOR. Three of these swaps with a total notional amount of $225 million became effective in March, 2011 and will mature in May, 2015. The average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 1.91%. The three remaining interest rate swaps with total notional amounts of $75 million, $25 million and $100 million became effective in December, 2011 and have corresponding fixed rates of 1.32%, 1.96% and 2.50%. The $75 million and $25 million interest rate swaps matured in December, 2012 and December, 2013, respectively, and the $100 million interest rate swap is scheduled to mature in December, 2014. 88 Table of Contents During 2010, we entered into four forward starting interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $600 million and receive three-month LIBOR. Each of the four swaps became effective in December, 2011 and will mature in May, 2015. The average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 2.38%. During the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into two interest rate swaps whereby we paid a fixed rate on a total notional principal amount of $150 million and received three-month LIBOR. Each of the two interest rate swaps, which are now expired, had an initial notional principal amount of $75 million. The fixed rate payable on one of the interest rate swaps was 4.87% and it matured in October, 2011. The fixed rate payable on the other interest rate swap, on which the notional principal amount reduced to $50 million in October, 2010, was 4.76% and it matured in October, 2012. We measure our interest rate swaps at fair value on a recurring basis. The fair value of our interest rate swaps is based primarily on quotes from banks. We consider those inputs to be “level 2” in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities. The fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $24 million at December 31, 2013, of which $19 million is included in other current liabilities and $5 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. At December 31, 2012, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $41 million, substantially all of which is included in other noncurrent liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. The table below presents information about our long-term financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates as of December 31, 2013. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. Maturity Date, Fiscal Year Ending December 31 (Dollars in thousands) As calculated based upon our variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 2013 that is subject to interest rate fluctuations, each 1% change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax income by approximately $17 million. Our Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Income, Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, together with the reports of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, are included elsewhere herein. Reference is made to the “Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule.” 89 Table of Contents None. As of December 31, 2013, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), we performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) or Rule 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Based on this evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that material information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported by management on a timely basis in order to comply with our disclosure obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the SEC rules thereunder. Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting or in other factors during the fourth quarter of 2013 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate system of internal control over our financial reporting. In order to evaluate the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management has conducted an assessment, including testing, using the criteria on Internal Control—Integrated Framework (1992), issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Our system of internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Based on its assessment, management has concluded that we maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria in Internal Control—Integrated Framework (1992), issued by the COSO. The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm as stated in its report which appears herein. None. 90 Table of Contents PART III There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the captions “Election of Directors”, “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” and “Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2013. See also “Executive Officers of the Registrant” appearing in Item 1 hereof. There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the caption “Executive Compensation” in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2013. There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Executive Compensation” in our Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2013. There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the captions “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Corporate Governance” in our Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2013. There is hereby incorporated by reference the information to appear under the caption “Relationship with Independent Auditors” in our Proxy Statement, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after December 31, 2013. 91 Table of Contents PART IV (a) Documents filed as part of this report: (1) Financial Statements: See “Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule.” (2) Financial Statement Schedules: See “Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule.” (3) Exhibits: 2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 16, 2010, among Universal Health Services, Inc., Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. and Olympus Acquisition Corp., previously filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 18, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 2.2 Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 3, 2012, by and among Universal Health Services, Inc., Lola Transaction Corporation, Ascend Health Corporation and Stockholders’ Representatives, previously filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 6, 2012, is incorporated herein by reference. 3.1 Registrant’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and Amendments thereto, previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997, are incorporated herein by reference. 3.2 Bylaws of Registrant, as amended, previously filed as Exhibit 3.2 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987, is incorporated herein by reference. 3.3 Amendment to the Registrant’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation previously filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 3, 2001 is incorporated herein by reference. 4.1 Form of Indenture dated January 20, 2000, between Universal Health Services, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A.), Trustee previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-3/A (File No. 333-85781), dated February 1, 2000, is incorporated herein by reference. 4.2 Supplemental Indenture between Universal Health Services, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, dated as of June 20, 2006, previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-135277) dated June 23, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference. 4.3 Form of Debt Security, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-135277) dated June 23, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference. 4.4 Form of 7.125% Notes due 2016, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 30, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference. 4.5 Officer’s Certificate relating to the 7.125% Notes due 2016, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 30, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference. 92 Table of Contents 4.6 Form of Note, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 30, 2008, is incorporated herein by reference. 4.7 Officers’ Certificate, previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 30, 2008, is incorporated herein by reference. 4.8 Indenture, dated as of September 29, 2010, between UHS Escrow Corporation and Union Bank, N.A., as Trustee, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 5, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 4.9 Form of 7% Senior Note due 2018, contained in Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 5, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 4.10 Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 15, 2010, to the Indenture, dated September 29, 2010, between UHS Escrow Corporation and Union Bank, N.A., as Trustee, relating to the $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Escrow Issuer’s 7% Senior Notes due 2018, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 4.11 Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 15, 2010, to the Indenture, dated January 20, 2000, between Universal Health Services, Inc. and the Bank of New York Mellon Trust company, N.A., as Trustee, previously filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.1* Employment Agreement, dated as of July 24, 2013, by and between Universal Health Services, Inc. and Alan B. Miller, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 26, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.2 Advisory Agreement, dated as of December 24, 1986, between Universal Health Realty Income Trust and UHS of Delaware, Inc., previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 24, 1986, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.3 Agreement, dated December 6, 2013, to renew Advisory Agreement, dated as of December 24, 1986, between Universal Health Realty Income Trust and UHS of Delaware, Inc. 10.4 Form of Leases, including Form of Master Lease Document for Leases, between certain subsidiaries of the Registrant and Universal Health Realty Income Trust, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Amendment No. 3 of the Registration Statement on Form S-11 and Form S-2 of Registrant and Universal Health Realty Income Trust (Registration No. 33-7872), is incorporated herein by reference. 10.5 Corporate Guaranty of Obligations of Subsidiaries Pursuant to Leases and Contract of Acquisition, dated December 24, 1986, issued by Registrant in favor of Universal Health Realty Income Trust, previously filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 24, 1986, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.6* Universal Health Services, Inc. Executive Retirement Income Plan dated January 1, 1993, previously filed as Exhibit 10.7 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.7 Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of February 6, 1996, among Amarillo Hospital District, UHS of Amarillo, Inc. and Universal Health Services, Inc., previously filed as Exhibit 10.28 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, is incorporated herein by reference. 93 Table of Contents 10.8 Agreement of Limited Partnership of District Hospital Partners, L.P. (a District of Columbia limited partnership) by and among UHS of D.C., Inc. and The George Washington University, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 30, 1997, and June 30, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.9 Contribution Agreement between The George Washington University (a congressionally chartered institution in the District of Columbia) and District Hospital Partners, L.P. (a District of Columbia limited partnership), previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.10 Valley/Desert Contribution Agreement dated January 30, 1998, by and among Valley Hospital Medical Center, Inc. and NC-DSH, Inc. previously filed as Exhibit 10.30 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.11 Summerlin Contribution Agreement dated January 30, 1998, by and among Summerlin Hospital Medical Center, L.P. and NC-DSH, Inc., previously filed as Exhibit 10.31 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.12* Amended and Restated Universal Health Services, Inc. Supplemental Deferred Compensation Plan dated as of January 1, 2002, previously filed as Exhibit 10.29 to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.13* Second Amended and Restated 2001 Employees’ Restricted Stock Purchase Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 22, 2008, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.14* Universal Health Services, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-122188), dated January 21, 2005 is incorporated herein by reference. 10.15* Universal Health Services, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 18, 2011, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.16* Form of Stock Option Agreement, previously filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated June 8, 2005, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.17* Form of Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors, previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated October 3, 2005, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.18 Amendment No. 1 to the Master Lease Document, between certain subsidiaries of Universal Health Services, Inc. and Universal Health Realty Income Trust, dated April 24, 2006, previously filed as Exhibit 10.29 to the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.19* Universal Health Services, Inc. 2010 Employees’ Restricted Stock Purchase Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 20, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.20* Universal Health Services, Inc. 2010 Executive Incentive Plan, previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 20, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 94 Table of Contents 10.21 Omnibus Amendment to Receivables Sale Agreements, dated as of October 27, 2010, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.22 Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement, dated as of October 27, 2010, previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.23 Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement, dated as of October 25, 2013, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 30, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.24 Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of October 27, 2010, previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.25 Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, by and among Universal Health Services, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the various financial institutions as are or may become parties thereto, as Lenders, SunTrust Bank, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Plc, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company and Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, as co-documentation agents, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Bank of America N.A. as co-syndication agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent for the Lenders and as collateral agent for the secured parties, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.26 First Amendment, dated as of March 15, 2011, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, by and among Universal Health Services, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the various financial institutions as are or may become parties thereto, as Lenders, certain banks as co-documentation agents, and as co-syndication agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent for the Lenders and as collateral agent for the secured parties, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 15, 2011, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.27 Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010 and amended and restated as of September 21, 2012, by and among Universal Health Services, Inc. (the borrower), the several lenders from time to time parties thereto, Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, Mizuho Corporate Bank LTD., Royal Bank of Canada and The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC (as co-documentation agents), Bank of Tokoyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Company, Bank of America N.A. and Suntrust Bank (as co-syndication agents), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (as administrative agent), previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 26, 2012, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.28 Second Amendment, dated as of September 21, 2012, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010 (as amended from time to time), among Universal Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and the other agents party thereto, previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 26, 2012, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.29 Third Amendment, dated as of May 16, 2013, to the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010, as amended from time to time, among Universal Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and the other agents party thereto, previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 17, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.30* Form of Supplemental Life Insurance Plan and Agreement Part A: Alan B. Miller 1998 Dual Life Insurance Trust (effective December 9, 2010, by and between Universal Health Services, Inc., a 95 Table of Contents Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and Anthony Pantaleoni as Trustee), previously filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.31* Form of Supplemental Life Insurance Plan and Agreement Part B: Alan B. Miller 2002 Trust (effective December 9, 2010, by and between Universal Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), and Anthony Pantaleoni as Trustee), previously filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.32* Universal Health Services, Inc. Termination, Assignment and Release Agreement (effective December 9, 2010, by and between Universal Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), Anthony Pantaleoni as Trustee of the Alan B. Miller 1998 Dual Life Insurance Trust, and Alan B. Miller, Executive), previously filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 10.33* Universal Health Services, Inc. Termination, Assignment and Release Agreement (effective December 9, 2010, by and between Universal Health Services, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), Anthony Pantaleoni as Trustee of the Alan B. Miller 2002 Trust, and Alan B. Miller, Executive), previously filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 11 Statement regarding computation of per share earnings is set forth in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 21 Subsidiaries of Registrant. 23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm-PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. 31.1 Certification from the Company’s Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15(d)-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 31.2 Certification from the Company’s Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15(d)-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 32.1 Certification from the Company’s Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 32.2 Certification from the Company’s Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document Exhibits, other than those incorporated by reference, have been included in copies of this Annual Report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Stockholders of the Company will be provided with copies of those exhibits upon written request to the Company. 96 Table of Contents SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. February 27, 2014 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 97 Table of Contents UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE 98 Table of Contents REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Universal Health Services, Inc.: In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Universal Health Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, financial statement schedule, and for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in item 9A as Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting . Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Philadelphia, Pennsylvania February 27, 2014 99 Table of Contents UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 100 Table of Contents UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 101 Table of Contents UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 102 Table of Contents UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 (in thousands, except per share data) 103 Table of Contents UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY—(Continued) For the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 (in thousands, except per share data) 104 Table of Contents UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY—(Continued) For the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 (in thousands, except per share data) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 105 Table of Contents UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 106 Table of Contents NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1) BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Services provided by our hospitals, all of which are operated by subsidiaries of ours include general and specialty surgery, internal medicine, obstetrics, emergency room care, radiology, oncology, diagnostic care, coronary care, pediatric services, pharmacy services and/or behavioral health services. We, through our subsidiaries, provide capital resources as well as a variety of management services to our facilities, including central purchasing, information services, finance and control systems, facilities planning, physician recruitment services, administrative personnel management, marketing and public relations. The more significant accounting policies follow: A) Principles of Consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our majority-owned subsidiaries and partnerships controlled by us or our subsidiaries as the managing general partner. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. B) Revenue Recognition: We record revenues and related receivables for health care services at the time the services are provided. Medicare and Medicaid revenues represented 38% of our net patient revenues during 2013, 39% during 2012 and 41% during 2011. Revenues from managed care entities, including health maintenance organizations and managed Medicare and Medicaid programs accounted for 49% of our net patient revenues during each of 2013 and 2012 and 47% during 2011. We report net patient service revenue at the estimated net realizable amounts from patients and third-party payors and others for services rendered. We have agreements with third-party payors that provide for payments to us at amounts different from our established rates. Payment arrangements include prospectively determined rates per discharge, reimbursed costs, discounted charges and per diem payments. Estimates of contractual allowances under managed care plans are based upon the payment terms specified in the related contractual agreements. We closely monitor our historical collection rates, as well as changes in applicable laws, rules and regulations and contract terms, to assure that provisions are made using the most accurate information available. However, due to the complexities involved in these estimations, actual payments from payors may be different from the amounts we estimate and record. We estimate our Medicare and Medicaid revenues using the latest available financial information, patient utilization data, government provided data and in accordance with applicable Medicare and Medicaid payment rules and regulations. The laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are extremely complex and subject to interpretation and as a result, there is at least a reasonable possibility that recorded estimates will change by material amounts in the near term. Certain types of payments by the Medicare program and state Medicaid programs (e.g. Medicare Disproportionate Share Hospital, Medicare Allowable Bad Debts and Inpatient Psychiatric Services) are subject to retroactive adjustment in future periods as a result of administrative review and audit and our estimates may vary from the final settlements. Such amounts are included in accounts receivable, net, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The funding of both federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs are subject to legislative and regulatory changes. As such, we cannot provide any assurance that future legislation and regulations, if enacted, will not have a material impact on our future Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. Adjustments related to the final settlement of these retrospectively determined amounts did not materially impact our results in 2013, 2012 or 2011. We provide care to patients who meet certain financial or economic criteria without charge or at amounts substantially less than our established rates. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts determined to qualify as charity care, they are not reported in net revenues or in accounts receivable, net. See additional disclosure below in Charity Care and Uninsured Discounts for our estimated uncompensated care provided and estimated cost of providing uncompensated care. 107 Table of Contents C) Provision for Doubtful Accounts: Collection of receivables from third-party payers and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. Our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill which is the patient’s responsibility, primarily co-payments and deductibles. We estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payer mix, the agings of the receivables and historical collection experience. We routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions which might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. At our acute care hospitals, third party liability accounts are pursued until all payment and adjustments are posted to the patient account. For those accounts with a patient balance after third party liability is finalized or accounts for uninsured patients, the patient receives statements and collection letters. Patients that express an inability to pay are reviewed for potential sources of financial assistance including our charity care policy. If the patient is deemed unwilling to pay, the account is written-off as bad debt and transferred to an outside collection agency for additional collection effort. Uninsured patients that do not qualify as charity patients are extended an uninsured discount of a minimum of 30% of total charges. Our hospitals establish a partial reserve for self-pay accounts in the allowance for doubtful accounts for both unbilled balances and those that have been billed and are under 90 days old. All self-pay accounts are fully reserved at 90 days from the date of discharge. Third party liability accounts are fully reserved in the allowance for doubtful accounts when the balance ages past 180 days from the date of discharge. Potential charity accounts are fully reserved when it is determined the patient may be unable to pay. Our accounts receivable as of December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 includes amounts due from Illinois of approximately $49 million, $70 million and $54 million, respectively. Collection of the outstanding receivables continues to be delayed due to state budgetary and funding pressures. Approximately $28 million as of December 31, 2013, $51 million as of December 31, 2012 and $41 million as of December 31, 2011, of the receivables due from Illinois were outstanding in excess of 60 days, as of each respective date. In addition, our accounts receivable as of December 31, 2013 includes approximately $46 million due from Texas in connection with Medicaid supplemental payment programs the majority of which we expect to collect during the second quarter of 2014. Although the accounts receivable due from Illinois and Texas could remain outstanding for the foreseeable future, since we expect to eventually collect all amounts due to us (we have received $27 million of cash remittances from Illinois in January, 2014), no related reserves have been established in our consolidated financial statements. However, we can provide no assurance that we will eventually collect all amounts due to us from Illinois and/or Texas. Failure to ultimately collect all outstanding amounts due from these states would have an adverse impact on our future consolidated results of operations and cash flows. On a consolidated basis, we monitor our total self-pay receivables to ensure that the total allowance for doubtful accounts provides adequate coverage based on historical collection experience. Our accounts receivable are recorded net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $395 million and $311 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. D) Concentration of Revenues: Our five majority owned acute care hospitals in the Las Vegas, Nevada market contributed, on a combined basis, 14% of our consolidated net revenues in each of 2013 and 2012 and 15% in 2011. On a combined basis, our facilities in the McAllen/Edinburg, Texas market (consisting of three acute care facilities, a children’s hospital and a behavioral health facility) contributed 4% of our consolidated net revenues in each of 2013 and 2012 and 5% in 2011. E) Charity Care and Uninsured Discounts: A significant portion of the patients treated throughout our portfolio of acute care hospitals are uninsured patients which, in part, has resulted from an increase in the number of patients who are employed but do not have health insurance or who have policies with relatively high deductibles. Patients treated at our hospitals for non-elective services, who have gross income less than 400% of the federal poverty guidelines, are deemed eligible for charity care. The federal poverty guidelines are established by the federal government and are based on income and family size. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts that qualify as charity care, they are not reported in our net revenues or in our accounts receivable, net. We also provide discounts to uninsured patients (included in “uninsured discounts” amounts 108 Table of Contents below) who do not qualify for Medicaid or charity care. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts classified as uninsured discounts, they are not reported in our net revenues or in our accounts receivable, net. In implementing the discount policy, we first attempt to qualify uninsured patients for governmental programs, charity care or any other discount program. If an uninsured patient does not qualify for these programs, the uninsured discount is applied. Uncompensated care: The following table shows the amounts recorded at our acute care hospitals for charity care and uninsured discounts, based on charges at established rates, for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011: In addition, the provision for doubtful accounts at our acute care hospitals were approximately $1.02 billion during 2013, $635 million during 2012 and $519 million during 2011. The estimated cost of providing uncompensated care: The estimated cost of providing uncompensated care, as reflected below, were based on a calculation which multiplied the percentage of operating expenses for our acute care hospitals to gross charges for those hospitals by the above-mentioned total uncompensated care amounts. The percentage of cost to gross charges is calculated based on the total operating expenses for our acute care facilities divided by gross patient service revenue for those facilities. An increase in the level of uninsured patients to our facilities and the resulting adverse trends in the provision for doubtful accounts and uncompensated care provided could have a material unfavorable impact on our future operating results. F) Accounting for Medicare and Medicaid Electronic Health Records Incentive Payments: In July 2010, the Department of Health and Human Services published final regulations implementing the health information technology provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The regulation defines the “meaningful use” of Electronic Health Records (“EHR”) and established the requirements for the Medicare and Medicaid EHR payment incentive programs. The implementation period for these new Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments started in federal fiscal year 2011 and can end as late as 2016 for Medicare and 2021 for the state Medicaid programs. We recognize income related to Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments using a gain contingency model that is based upon when our eligible hospitals have demonstrated “meaningful use” of certified EHR technology for the applicable period and the cost report information for the full cost report year that will determine the final calculation of the incentive payment is available. Medicare EHR incentive payments: Federal regulations require that Medicare EHR incentive payments be computed based on the Medicare cost report that begins in the federal fiscal period in which a hospital meets the 109 Table of Contents applicable “meaningful use” requirements. Since the annual Medicare cost report periods for each of our acute care hospitals ends on December 31 st , we will recognize Medicare EHR incentive income for each hospital during the fourth quarter of the year in which the facility meets the “meaningful use” criteria and during the fourth quarter of each applicable subsequent year. Medicaid EHR incentive payments: Medicaid EHR incentive payments are determined based upon prior period cost report information available at the time our hospitals met the “meaningful use” criteria. Therefore, the majority of the Medicaid EHR incentive income recognition occurred in the period in which the applicable hospitals were deemed to have met initial “meaningful use” criteria. Upon meeting subsequent fiscal year “meaningful use” criteria, our hospitals may become entitled to additional Medicaid EHR incentive payments which will be recognized as incentive income in future periods. Medicaid EHR incentive payments received prior to our hospitals meeting the “meaningful use” criteria were included in other current liabilities (as deferred EHR incentive income) in our consolidated balance sheet. G) Cash and Cash Equivalents: We consider all highly liquid investments purchased with maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. H) Property and Equipment: Property and equipment are stated at cost. Expenditures for renewals and improvements are charged to the property accounts. Replacements, maintenance and repairs which do not improve or extend the life of the respective asset are expensed as incurred. We remove the cost and the related accumulated depreciation from the accounts for assets sold or retired and the resulting gains or losses are included in the results of operations. Construction-in-progress includes both construction projects and equipment not yet placed into service. We capitalize interest expense on major construction projects while in progress. We capitalized interest on major construction projects and the development and implementation of electronic health records applications amounting to $4.9 million during 2013, $5.7 million during 2012 and $400,000 during 2011. Depreciation is provided on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of buildings and improvements (twenty to forty years) and equipment (three to fifteen years). Depreciation expense (excluding discontinued operations) was $285.6 million during 2013, $270.5 million during 2012 and $262.1 million during 2011. I) Long-Lived Assets: We review our long-lived assets, including intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of our asset based on our estimate of its undiscounted future cash flow. If the analysis indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable from future cash flows, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value and an impairment loss is recognized. Fair values are determined based on estimated future cash flows using appropriate discount rates. J) Goodwill and Intangible Assets: Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or sooner if the indicators of impairment arise. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and operational performance of each reporting unit. We have designated September 1 st as our annual impairment assessment date and performed an impairment assessment as of September 1, 2013 which indicated no impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. There were also no impairments during 2012 or 2011. Future changes in the estimates used to conduct the impairment review, including profitability and market value projections, could indicate impairment in future periods potentially resulting in a write-off of a portion or all of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. 110 Table of Contents Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the two years ended December 31, 2013 were as follows (in thousands): K) Other Assets: Other assets consist primarily of amounts related to: (i) intangible assets acquired in connection with our acquisition of Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. (“PSI”) in November, 2010 and Ascend Health Corporation in October, 2012, consisting of Medicare licenses, certificates of need and contracts to manage the operations of behavioral health services owned by third-parties (PSI only); (ii) prepaid fees for various software and other applications used by our hospitals; (iii) costs incurred in connection with the purchase and implementation of an electronic health records application for each of our acute care facilities; (iv) deposits; (v) investments in various businesses, including Universal Health Realty Income Trust; (vi) the invested assets related to a deferred compensation plan that is held by an independent trustee in a rabbi-trust and that has a related payable included in other noncurrent liabilities; (vii) the estimated future payments related to physician-related contractual commitments, as discussed below, and; (viii) other miscellaneous assets. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, were approximately $97 million and $99 million, respectively. L) Physician Guarantees and Commitments: As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, our accrued liabilities-other, and our other assets included $3 million, as of each respective date, of estimated future payments related to physician-related contractual commitments. The $3 million of potential future financial obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2013 are potential 2014 obligations. M) Self-Insured Risks: We provide for self-insured risks, primarily general and professional liability claims and workers’ compensation claims. Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and general liability claims is based on a number of factors including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts, estimate of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable under our commercial insurance policies. All relevant information, including our own historical experience is used in estimating the expected amount of claims. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved in making this estimate. Our estimated self-insured reserves are reviewed and changed, if necessary, at each reporting date and changes are recognized currently as additional expense or as a reduction of expense. See Note 8 for discussion of adjustments to our prior year reserves for claims related to our self-insured general and professional liability and workers’ compensation liability. 111 Table of Contents In addition, we also maintain self-insured employee benefits programs for employee healthcare and dental claims. The ultimate costs related to these programs include expenses for claims incurred and paid in addition to an accrual for the estimated expenses incurred in connection with claims incurred but not yet reported. N) Income Taxes: Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the amount of taxes payable or deductible in future years as a result of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements. We believe that future income will enable us to realize our deferred tax assets net of recorded valuation allowances relating to state net operating loss carry-forwards. We operate in multiple jurisdictions with varying tax laws. We are subject to audits by any of these taxing authorities. Our tax returns have been examined by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) through the year ended December 31, 2006. We believe that adequate accruals have been provided for federal, foreign and state taxes. See Note 6— Income Taxes, for additional disclosure. O) Other Noncurrent Liabilities: Other noncurrent liabilities include the long-term portion of our professional and general liability, workers’ compensation reserves, pension and deferred compensation liabilities, liability incurred in connection with split-dollar life insurance agreements on the lives of our chief executive officer and his wife and interest rate swap liabilities. P) Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests and Noncontrolling Interest: Outside owners hold noncontrolling, minority ownership interests of: (i) approximately 28% in our five acute care facilities located in Las Vegas, Nevada; (ii) 20% in an acute care facility located in Washington, D.C.; (iii) approximately 11% in an acute care facility located in Laredo, Texas, and; (iv) 20% in a behavioral health care facility located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The redeemable noncontrolling interest balances of $218 million and $234 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and the noncontrolling interest balances of $50 million and $53 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, consist primarily of the third-party ownership interests in these hospitals. In connection with the five acute care facilities located in Las Vegas, Nevada, the minority ownership interests of which are reflected as redeemable noncontrolling interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, the outside owners have certain “put rights”, that are currently exercisable, that if exercised, require us to purchase the minority member’s interests at fair market value. The put rights are exercisable upon the occurrence of: (i) certain specified financial conditions falling below established thresholds; (ii) breach of the management contract by the managing member (a subsidiary of ours), or; (iii) if the minority member’s ownership percentage is reduced to less than certain thresholds. In connection with the behavioral health care facility located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the minority ownership interest of which is also reflected as redeemable noncontrolling interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, the outside owner has a “put option” to put its entire ownership interest to us at any time. If exercised, the put option requires us to purchase the minority member’s interest at fair market value. As of December 31, 2013, we believe the fair market value of the minority ownership interests in these facilities, pursuant to the terms of the put options, approximates the book value of the redeemable noncontrolling interests. Q) Comprehensive Income and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income: Comprehensive income or loss is comprised of net income, changes in unrealized gains or losses on derivative financial instruments and a pension liability. The accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) component of stockholders’ equity includes: net unrealized gains and losses on effective cash flow hedges; and the net minimum pension liability of a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan which covers employees at one of our subsidiaries. See Note 10, “Pension Plan” for additional disclosure regarding the defined benefit pension plan. 112 Table of Contents The amounts recognized in AOCI for the two years ended December 31, 2013 were as follows (in thousands): R) Accounting for Derivative Financial Investments and Hedging Activities: We manage our ratio of fixed to floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. To manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. We account for our derivative and hedging activities using the Financial Accounting Standard Board’s (“FASB”) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. For derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. Derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. Cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) within stockholders’ equity. Amounts are reclassified from AOCI to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. We use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. Such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of the change in expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized currently in the income statement. Derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability, or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk, such as interest rate risk, are considered fair value hedges. Fair value hedges are accounted for by recording the changes in the fair value of both the derivative instrument and the hedged item in the income statement. For hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge’s inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows 113 Table of Contents of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future. S) Stock-Based Compensation: At December 31, 2013, we have a number of stock-based employee compensation plans. Pursuant to the FASB’s guidance, we expense the grant-date fair value of stock options and other equity-based compensation pursuant to the straight-line method over the stated vesting period of the award using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The expense associated with share-based compensation arrangements is a non-cash charge. In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, share-based compensation expense is an adjustment to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities. The applicable FASB guidance requires that cash flows resulting from tax deductions in excess of compensation cost recognized be classified as financing cash flows. T) Earnings Per Share: Basic earnings per share are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year adjusted to give effect to common stock equivalents. The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share, for the periods indicated: The “Net effect of dilutive stock options and grants based on the treasury stock method”, for all years presented above, excludes certain outstanding stock options applicable to each year since the effect would have been anti-dilutive. The excluded weighted-average stock options totaled 4,000 during 2013, 2.0 million during 2012, 1.4 million during 2011. U) Fair Value of Financial Instruments: The fair values of our registered debt and investments are based on quoted market prices. The fair values of other long-term debt, including capital lease obligations, are estimated by discounting cash flows using period-end interest rates and market conditions for instruments with similar maturities and credit quality. The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet for cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and short-term borrowings approximates their fair values due to the short-term 114 Table of Contents nature of these instruments. Accordingly, these items have been excluded from the fair value disclosures included elsewhere in these notes to consolidated financial statements. V) Use of Estimates: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. W) Mergers and Acquisitions: The acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values with limited exceptions. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Any excess of the purchase price (consideration transferred) over the estimated fair values of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Transaction costs and costs to restructure the acquired company are expensed as incurred. The fair value of intangible assets, including Medicare Licenses, Certificates of Need, and certain contracts, is based on significant judgments made by our management, and accordingly, for significant items we typically obtain assistance from third party valuation specialists. X) GPO Agreement/Minority Ownership Interest: During 2013, we entered into a new group purchasing organization agreement (“GPO”) and acquired a minority interest in the GPO for a nominal amount. In connection with the completion of an initial public offering of the stock of the GPO, during the fourth quarter of 2013, we received cash proceeds for the sale of a portion of our ownership interest, which were recorded as deferred income and included in liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2013. The deferred income will be recognized, on a pro rata basis, as a reduction to our supplies expense over the expected life of the GPO agreement. Also in connection with this GPO agreement and related minority interest ownership, we received shares of restricted stock in the GPO which vest ratably over a seven-year period, contingent upon our continued participation and minority ownership interest in the GPO. We will recognize the fair value of this restricted stock, as a reduction to our supplies expense, in our consolidated statements of income on a pro rata basis over the vesting period. Y) Accounting Standards: Reporting of Amounts Reclassified out of Other Comprehensive Income: In February 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued an Accounting Standards Update on reporting of amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income. This guidance, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2012, requires companies to provide information about amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component (the respective line items of the income statement). The adoption of this standard on January 1, 2013 had no impact on our financial position or overall results of operations. Presentation and Disclosure of Patient Service Revenue, Provision for Bad Debts, and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts for Certain Health Care Entities: During the first quarter of 2012, we adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-07, “Health Care Entities (Topic 954): Presentation and Disclosure of Patient Service Revenue, Provision for Bad Debts, and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts for Certain Health Care Entities,” which required certain health care entities to change the presentation in their statement of operations by reclassifying the provision for bad debts associated with patient service revenue from an operating expense to a deduction from patient service revenue (net of contractual allowances and discounts). As a result, the provision for doubtful accounts for our acute care and behavioral health care facilities is reflected as a deduction from net revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of income for each of the years presented herein. The adoption of this standard had no impact on our financial position or overall results of operations. 115 Table of Contents Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward Exists: In July 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued guidance regarding the presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. Under certain circumstances, unrecognized tax benefits should be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward. The guidance is a change in financial statement presentation only and has no material impact in the consolidated financial results. The guidance is effective beginning January 1, 2014 on either a prospective or retrospective basis. 2) ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES Year ended December 31, 2013: 2013 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses: During 2013, we spent an aggregate of $13 million for the purchase of real property located in Pennsylvania, Nevada and Arizona. The aggregate net purchase price of these properties was allocated to property and equipment on our consolidated balance sheet. 2013 Divestiture of Assets and Businesses: During 2013, we received an aggregate of $37 million in connection with the divestiture of Peak Behavioral Health Services (sold during the second quarter of 2013) and certain other assets and real property including three previously closed behavioral health care facilities. As discussed below in Discontinued Operations , we agreed to sell Peak Behavioral Health Services as part of our agreement with the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) in connection with our acquisition of Ascend Health Corporation (“Ascend”) in October of 2012. The aggregate pre-tax gain on these divestitures was approximately $3 million and in included in our 2013 consolidated results of operations. Year ended December 31, 2012: 2012 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses: During 2012, we spent $528 million to acquire the following assets and businesses: The aggregate net purchase price of the facilities was allocated to assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values as follows: Goodwill of the facilities acquired is computed, pursuant to the residual method, by deducting the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities from the total purchase price. The factors that contribute to the recognition of goodwill, which may also influence the purchase price, include the following for each of the acquired facilities: (i) the historical cash flows and income levels; (ii) the reputations in their respective markets; (iii) the nature of the respective operations, and; (iv) the future cash flows and income growth projections. 116 Table of Contents Assuming the acquisition of Ascend occurred on January 1, 2011, our 2011 unaudited pro forma net revenues would have been approximately $6.90 billion and our unaudited pro forma net income attributable to UHS and unaudited pro forma net income attributable to UHS per diluted share would have been $401 million and $4.06 per diluted share, respectively. The 2011 unaudited pro forma net income attributable to UHS and unaudited pro forma net income attributable to UHS per diluted share include the after-tax impact of the transaction costs incurred by us in connection with the acquisition of Ascend amounting to $5 million or $.06 per diluted share. Our 2012 unaudited pro forma net revenues would have been approximately $7.11 billion and our unaudited pro forma net income attributable to UHS and unaudited pro forma net income attributable to UHS per diluted share would have been $464 million and $4.74 per diluted share, respectively. During the period of October 10, 2012 through December 31, 2012, the facilities acquired from Ascend generated $42 million of net revenues which are included in our consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. The aggregate effect of the earnings generated by these facilities since the date of acquisition, less the cost on the borrowings utilized to finance the acquisition, and less the above-mentioned transaction costs, was not material to our 2012 net income attributable to UHS and net income attributable to UHS per diluted share. 2012 Divestiture of Assets and Businesses: During 2012, we received $149 million from the divestiture of assets and businesses, including the following: Included in our 2012 consolidated results of operations was a $26 million pre-tax gain on the divestiture of Auburn. The divestiture of San Juan Capestrano (in January, 2012) did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. Year ended December 31, 2011: 2011 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses: During 2011, we spent $29 million on the acquisition of businesses and real property, including the following: The aggregate net cash expenditure related to the properties and/or businesses was allocated to assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values as follows: 117 Table of Contents 2011 Divestitures of Assets and Businesses: During 2011, we received $68 million from the divestiture of assets and businesses, including the following: The aggregate pre-tax net gain on these divestitures did not have a material impact on our 2011 consolidated results of operations. Discontinued Operations: In connection with the receipt of antitrust clearance from the FTC in connection with our acquisition of Ascend in October of 2012, we agreed to certain conditions, including the divestiture of Peak Behavioral Health Services (“Peak”), a 104-bed behavioral health care facility located in Santa Teresa, New Mexico. The divestiture of Peak was completed during the second quarter of 2013 for total cash proceeds of approximately $24 million resulting in a pre-tax gain of approximately $3 million which is included in our 2013 consolidated financial statements. In October of 2012, we completed the divestiture of Auburn, a 159-bed acute care hospital located in Auburn, Washington, for total cash proceeds of approximately $93 million. This divestiture resulted in a pre-tax gain of $26 million which was included in our 2012 consolidated financial statements. In connection with the receipt of antitrust clearance from the FTC in connection with our acquisition of PSI in November, 2010, we agreed to divest three former PSI facilities as well as one of our legacy behavioral health facilities in Puerto Rico. Pursuant to the terms of our agreement with the FTC, we divested: The operating results for Auburn, Peak and the three former PSI facilities located in Delaware and Nevada are reflected as discontinued operations during our period of ownership during each of the years presented herein. Since the aggregate income from discontinued operations before income tax expense for these facilities is not material to our consolidated financial statements, it is included as a reduction to other operating expenses. Assets and liabilities for Peak were reflected as “held for sale” on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2012. The following table shows the results of operations for Auburn and Peak and the former PSI facilities located in Delaware and Nevada, on a combined basis, which were reflected as discontinued operations during our period of ownership for each of the years presented herein (amounts in thousands): 118 Table of Contents 3) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Fair Value Hedges: During 2013, 2012 and 2011, we had no fair value hedges outstanding. Cash Flow Hedges: We manage our ratio of fixed and floating rate debt with the objective of achieving a mix that management believes is appropriate. To manage this risk in a cost-effective manner, we, from time to time, enter into interest rate swap agreements in which we agree to exchange various combinations of fixed and/or variable interest rates based on agreed upon notional amounts. We account for our derivative and hedging activities using the Financial Accounting Standard Board’s (“FASB”) guidance which requires all derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, to be carried at fair value on the balance sheet. For derivative transactions designated as hedges, we formally document all relationships between the hedging instrument and the related hedged item, as well as its risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking each hedge transaction. Derivative instruments designated in a hedge relationship to mitigate exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. Cash flow hedges are accounted for by recording the fair value of the derivative instrument on the balance sheet as either an asset or liability, with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) within shareholders’ equity. Amounts are reclassified from AOCI to the income statement in the period or periods the hedged transaction affects earnings. We use interest rate derivatives in our cash flow hedge transactions. Such derivatives are designed to be highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows related to the hedged liability. For derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges, the ineffective portion of the change in expected cash flows of the hedged item are recognized currently in the income statement. For hedge transactions that do not qualify for the short-cut method, at the hedge’s inception and on a regular basis thereafter, a formal assessment is performed to determine whether changes in the fair values or cash flows of the derivative instruments have been highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items and whether they are expected to be highly effective in the future. The fair value of interest rate swap agreements approximates the amount at which they could be settled, based on estimates obtained from the counterparties. We assess the effectiveness of our hedge instruments on a quarterly basis. We performed periodic assessments of the cash flow hedge instruments during 2013 and 2012 and determined the hedges to be highly effective. We also determined that any portion of the hedges deemed to be ineffective was de minimis and therefore there was no material effect on our consolidated financial position, operations or cash flows. The counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements expose us to credit risk in the event of nonperformance. However, at December 31, 2013, each swap agreement entered into by us was in a net liability position which would require us to make the net settlement payments to the counterparties. We do not anticipate nonperformance by our counterparties. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. During 2011, we entered into a forward starting interest rate cap on a total notional amount of $450 million from December, 2011 to December, 2012 reducing to $400 million from December, 2012 to December, 2013 whereby we paid a premium of $740,000 in exchange for the counterparty agreeing to pay the difference between 7.00% and three-month LIBOR if the three-month LIBOR rate rises above 7.00% during the term of the cap. The three-month LIBOR never reached 7.00% during the term of the cap, which expired in December, 2013, and therefore no payment was made to us. We also entered into six forward starting interest rate swaps in 2011 whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $425 million and receive three-month LIBOR. Three of these swaps with a total notional amount of $225 million became effective in March, 2011 and will mature in May, 2015. The average fixed rate 119 Table of Contents payable on these swaps is 1.91%. The three remaining interest rate swaps with total notional amounts of $75 million, $25 million and $100 million became effective in December, 2011 and have corresponding fixed rates of 1.32%, 1.96% and 2.50%. The $75 million and $25 million interest rate swaps matured in December, 2012 and December, 2013, respectively, and the $100 million interest rate swap is scheduled to mature in December, 2014. During 2010, we entered into four forward starting interest rate swaps whereby we pay a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $600 million and receive three-month LIBOR. Each of the four swaps became effective in December, 2011 and will mature in May, 2015. The average fixed rate payable on these swaps is 2.38%. During the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into two interest rate swaps whereby we paid a fixed rate on a total notional principal amount of $150 million and received three-month LIBOR. Each of the two interest rate swaps, which are now expired, had an initial notional principal amount of $75 million. The fixed rate payable on one of the interest rate swaps was 4.87% and it matured in October, 2011. The fixed rate payable on the other interest rate swap, on which the notional principal amount reduced to $50 million in October, 2010, was 4.76% and it matured in October, 2012. We measure our interest rate swaps at fair value on a recurring basis. The fair value of our interest rate swaps is based primarily on quotes from banks. We consider those inputs to be “level 2” in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with derivative instruments and hedging activities. The fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $24 million at December 31, 2013, of which $19 million is included in other current liabilities and $5 million is included in other noncurrent liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. At December 31, 2012, the fair value of our interest rate swaps was a liability of $41 million, substantially all of which is included in other noncurrent liabilities on the accompanying balance sheet. 4) LONG-TERM DEBT A summary of long-term debt follows: 120 Table of Contents In May, 2013, we entered into a third amendment (the “Third Amendment”) to the credit agreement, dated as of November 15, 2010 (as amended from time to time, the “Credit Agreement”), which became effective that day, among UHS, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and the other agents party thereto. The Third Amendment provides for a reduction in the interest rates payable in connection with certain borrowings under the Credit Agreement. Upon the effectiveness of the Third Amendment, UHS replaced its existing $745.9 million senior secured Tranche B term loan with a new senior secured Tranche B-1 term loan in the same amount on substantially the same terms as the Tranche B term loan, other than lower interest rates. Borrowings under the Tranche B-1 term loan bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our election, one, two, three or six month LIBOR, plus an applicable margin of 2.25% or ABR plus an applicable margin of 1.25%. The minimum LIBOR and ABR rates for the Tranche B term loan of 1.0% and 2.0%, respectively, were eliminated. In September, 2012, we entered into a second amendment (“Second Amendment”) to our Credit Agreement which provided for: (i) a new $900 million Term Loan-A (“Term Loan A2”) at the same interest rates as our existing Term Loan A and a final maturity date of August 15, 2016; (ii) the extension of the maturity date on a substantial portion of our $800 million revolving credit facility commitment with $777 million of the commitment extended to mature on August 15, 2016 and the remaining $23 million commitment scheduled to mature on November 15, 2015 (there were no borrowings outstanding pursuant to our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2013), and; (iii) the extension of the maturity date on a substantial portion of our Term Loan-A borrowings which, based upon the outstanding Term Loan-A borrowings as of December 31, 2013, $892 million is scheduled to mature on August 15, 2016 and the remaining $43 million is scheduled to mature on November 15, 2015. The Second Amendment also provides for increased flexibility for refinancing and certain other modifications but substantially all other terms of the Credit Agreement remain unchanged. In September, 2012, we used $700 million of the proceeds from the new Term Loan A2 facility to extinguish a portion of our higher priced, Term Loan-B facility. Pricing under the new Term Loan A2 facility was 1% lower than the Term Loan-B facility and did not include a LIBOR Floor whereas, at that time, the Term Loan-B facility had a 1% LIBOR Floor (which has since been eliminated as part of the above-mentioned Third Amendment in May, 2013). During the third quarter of 2012, in connection with the extinguishment of a portion of our Term Loan-B facility, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $29 million to write-off the related portion of the Term Loan-B deferred financing costs. The Credit Agreement, as amended, is a senior secured facility which, as of December 31, 2013, provided for an aggregate commitment amount of $3.16 billion, comprised of an $800 million revolving credit facility, a $939 million Term Loan-A facility, a $550 million Term Loan-B facility and a $872 million Term Loan-A2 facility. The revolving credit facility includes a $125 million sub-limit for letters of credit. The Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and our material subsidiaries and guaranteed by our material subsidiaries. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at either (1) the ABR rate which is defined as the rate per annum equal to, at our election: the greatest of (a) the lender’s prime rate, (b) the weighted average of the federal funds rate, plus 0.5% and (c) one month LIBOR rate plus 1%, in each case, plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 0.50% to 1.25% for revolving credit, Term Loan-A and Term Loan-A2 borrowings and 1.25% for Term Loan B borrowings or (2) the one, two, three or six month LIBOR rate (at our election), plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 1.50% to 2.25% for revolving credit, Term Loan-A and Term Loan-A2 borrowings and 2.25% for Term Loan-B borrowings. The current applicable margins are 0.50% for ABR-based loans, 1.50% for LIBOR-based loans under the revolving credit, Term Loan-A and Term Loan-A2 facilities and 2.25% under the Term Loan-B facility. As of December 31, 2013, we had no borrowings outstanding pursuant to the terms of our $800 million revolving credit facility and we had $755 million of available borrowing capacity, net of $25 million of outstanding borrowings pursuant to a short-term, on-demand credit facility and $20 million of outstanding letters of credit. 121 Table of Contents During 2013, we made scheduled principal payments of $72 million on the Term Loan-A and Term Loan A2 facilities. Quarterly installment payments (“Installment Payments”) are due on the Term Loan-A and Term Loan-A2 facilities which approximate $72 million in 2014, $77 million in 2015 and $46 million in 2016. The Installment Payments due on the Term Loan-A and Term Loan-A2 facilities during 2014 are classified as current maturities of long-term debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2013. Although no Installment Payments are due on the Term Loan-B facility, we made optional repayments of $196 million during the fourth quarter of 2013. In October, 2013 our $275 million accounts receivable securitization program (“Securitization”) with a group of conduit lenders and liquidity banks was amended to extend the maturity date to October 25, 2016 and reduce the interest rate spread and commitment fee. Substantially all of the patient-related accounts receivable of our acute care hospitals (“Receivables”) serve as collateral for the outstanding borrowings. We have accounted for this Securitization as borrowings. We maintain effective control over the Receivables since, pursuant to the terms of the Securitization, the Receivables are sold from certain of our subsidiaries to special purpose entities that are wholly-owned by us. The Receivables, however, are owned by the special purpose entities, can be used only to satisfy the debts of the wholly-owned special purpose entities, and thus are not available to us except through our ownership interest in the special purpose entities. The wholly-owned special purpose entities use the Receivables to collateralize the loans obtained from the group of third-party conduit lenders and liquidity banks. The group of third-party conduit lenders and liquidity banks do not have recourse to us beyond the assets of the wholly-owned special purpose entities that securitize the loans. At December 31, 2013, we had $240 million of outstanding borrowings and $35 million of additional capacity pursuant to the terms of our accounts receivable securitization program. Our $250 million, 7.00% senior unsecured notes (the “Unsecured Notes”) are scheduled to mature on October 1, 2018. The Unsecured Notes were issued on September 29, 2010 and registered in April, 2011. Interest on the Unsecured Note is payable semiannually in arrears on April 1st and October 1st of each year. The Unsecured Notes can be redeemed in whole at anytime subject to a make-whole call at treasury rate plus 50 basis points prior to October 1, 2014. They are also redeemable in whole or in part at a price of: (i) 103.5% on or after October 1, 2014; (ii) 101.75% on or after October 1, 2015, and; (iii) 100% on or after October 1, 2016. These Unsecured Notes are guaranteed by a group of subsidiaries (each of which is a 100% directly or indirectly owned subsidiary of Universal Health Services, Inc.) which fully and unconditionally guarantee the Unsecured Notes on a joint and several basis, subject to certain customary automatic release provisions. On June 30, 2006, we issued $250 million of senior notes which have a 7.125% coupon rate and mature on June 30, 2016 (the “7.125% Notes”). Interest on the 7.125% Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on June 30th and December 30th of each year. In June, 2008, we issued an additional $150 million of 7.125% Notes which formed a single series with the original 7.125% Notes issued in June, 2006. Other than their date of issuance and initial price to the public, the terms of the 7.125% Notes issued in June, 2008 are identical to and trade interchangeably with, the 7.125% Notes which were originally issued in June, 2006. In connection with the entering into of the Credit Agreement on November 15, 2010, and in accordance with the Indenture dated January 20, 2000 governing the rights of our existing notes, we entered into a supplemental indenture pursuant to which our 7.125% Notes (due in 2016) were equally and ratably secured with the lenders under the Credit Agreement with respect to the collateral for so long as the lenders under the Credit Agreement are so secured. The average amounts outstanding during each of years 2013, 2012 and 2011 under the current and prior Credit Agreements, demand notes and accounts receivable securitization programs was $2.9 billion, with corresponding interest rates of 2.2%, 2.9% and 3.4% including commitment and facility fees. The maximum amounts outstanding at any month-end were $3.00 billion in 2013, $3.06 billion in 2012 and $3.03 billion in 2011. The effective interest rate on our current and prior Credit Agreements, accounts receivable securitization programs, and demand notes, which includes the respective interest expense, commitment and facility fees, 122 Table of Contents designated interest rate swaps expense and amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts, was 3.6% in 2013, 4.5% in 2012 and 4.6% in 2011. Our Credit Agreement includes a material adverse change clause that must be represented at each draw. The Credit Agreement contains covenants that include a limitation on sales of assets, mergers, change of ownership, liens and indebtedness, transactions with affiliates and dividends; and requires compliance with financial covenants including maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios. We are in compliance with all required covenants as of December 31, 2013. The carrying values of our debt at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $3.3 billion and $3.7 billion, respectively. The fair values of our debt at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were $3.4 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively. The fair value of our debt was computed based upon quotes received from financial institutions. We consider these to be “level 2” in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with debt instruments. Aggregate maturities follow: 5) COMMON STOCK Dividends Cash dividends of $.20 per share ($19.6 million in the aggregate) were declared and paid during 2013, $.60 per share ($58.4 million in the aggregate), including a $.40 per share special cash dividend ($38.9 million) were declared and paid during 2012 and $.20 per share ($19.5 million in the aggregate) were declared and paid during 2011. All classes of our common stock have similar economic rights. Stock Repurchase Programs In various prior years, our Board of Directors has approved stock repurchase programs authorizing us to purchase shares of our outstanding Class B Common Stock on the open market at prevailing market prices or in negotiated transactions off the market. There is no expiration date for our stock repurchase programs. The most recent approval occurred during 2007 at which time our Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to 10 million shares, a portion of which (as reflected below) remains available for purchase as of December 31, 2013. The following schedule provides information related to our stock repurchase programs for each of the three years ended December 31, 2013. All of the shares repurchased during 2013 and 2012 related to income tax 123 Table of Contents withholding obligations resulting from the exercise of stock options and the vesting of restricted stock grants. No shares were repurchased during 2013 or 2012 pursuant to our publicly announced stock repurchase program. Stock-based Compensation Plans At December 31, 2013, we have a number of stock-based employee compensation plans. Pursuant to the FASB’s guidance, we expense the grant-date fair value of stock options and other equity-based compensation pursuant to the straight-line method over the stated vesting period of the award using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The expense associated with share-based compensation arrangements is a non-cash charge. In the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, share-based compensation expense is an adjustment to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities and aggregated to $27.8 million in 2013, $22.5 million in 2012 and $18.2 million in 2011. In accordance with ASC 718, excess income tax benefits related to stock based compensation are classified as cash inflows from financing activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Previously for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we included $16.0 million and $7.6 million, respectively, of excess income tax benefits related to stock based compensation as net cash provided by operating activities as included in the change in accrued and deferred income taxes for each year. In our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, as included herein, those amounts are reflected as cash inflows from financing activities for each respective year. We assessed this misclassification and concluded that it was not material to our previously issued annual and quarterly Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. During 2013, we generated $20.1 million of excess income tax benefits related to stock based compensation which are reflected as cash inflows from financing activities in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Compensation costs related to outstanding stock options were recognized as follows: (i) a pre-tax charge of $25.8 million ($16.1 million after-tax) during 2013; (ii) a pre-tax charge of $20.1 million ($12.5 million after-tax) 124 Table of Contents during 2012, and; (iii) a pre-tax charge of $15.8 million ($9.8 million after-tax) during 2011. In addition, during the years ended 2013, 2012 and 2011, compensation costs of $1.4 million ($853,000 after-tax), $2.3 million ($1.4 million after-tax) and $2.0 million ($1.2 million after-tax), respectively, were recognized related to restricted stock. We adopted the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended in 2008 and 2010, (the “Stock Incentive Plan”) which replaced our Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Option Plan which expired in July of 2005. An aggregate of twenty-three million shares of Class B Common Stock has been reserved under the Stock Incentive Plan. There were 2,737,725; 2,621,161 and 2,473,500 stock options, net of cancellations, granted during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The per option weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during 2013, 2012 and 2011, was $13.33, $10.73 and $11.62, respectively. Stock options to purchase Class B Common Stock have been granted to our officers, key employees and directors under our above referenced stock option plans. All stock options were granted with an exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of the grant. Options are exercisable ratably over a four-year period beginning one year after the date of the grant. All outstanding options expire five years after the date of the grant. The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The following weighted average assumptions were derived from averaging the number of options granted during the most recent five-year period. The weighted-average assumptions reflected below were each based upon eighteen option grants. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury zero coupon four year yield in effect at the time of grant. The expected life of the stock options granted was estimated using the historical behavior of employees. Expected volatility was based on historical volatility for a period equal to the stock option’s expected life. Expected dividend yield is based on our dividend yield at the time of grant. The table below summarizes our stock option activity during each of the last three years: 125 Table of Contents The following table provides information about unvested options for the year December 31, 2013: The following table provides information about all outstanding options, and exercisable options, at December 31, 2013: The total in-the-money value of all stock options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were $70.9 million, $54.4 million and $28.9 million, respectively. The weighted average remaining contractual life for options outstanding and weighted average exercise price per share for exercisable options at December 31, 2013 were as follows: In addition to the Stock Incentive Plan, we have the following stock incentive and purchase plans: (i) the 2010 Employees’ Restricted Stock Purchase Plan (“2010 Plan”), which replaced the Second Amended and Restated 2001 Employees’ Restricted Stock Purchase Plan (“2001 Plan”), which allows eligible participants to purchase shares of Class B Common Stock at par value, subject to certain restrictions, and; (ii) a 2005 Employee Stock Purchase Plan which allows eligible employees to purchase shares of Class B Common Stock at a ten percent discount. There were 90,587, 117,901 and 98,366 shares issued pursuant to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Compensation expense recorded in connection with this plan was $581,000, $533,000 and $461,000 during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 126 Table of Contents We have reserved 6.0 million shares of Class B Common Stock for issuance under these various plans (excluding terminated plans) and have issued approximately 1.0 million shares, net of cancellations, pursuant to the terms of these plans (excluding terminated plans) as of December 31, 2013. During 2013, pursuant to the 2010 Plan, the Compensation Committee (“Committee”) approved the issuance of 10,000 restricted shares of our Class B Common Stock at a weighted average price of $80.36 per share ($803,600 in the aggregate) to various employees. These shares are scheduled to vest ratably on the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date. We recorded compensation expense of approximately $41,000 during 2013 in connection with this grant. The remaining expense associated with these awards (estimated at approximately $760,000 as of December 31, 2013) will be recorded over the remaining vesting periods of the awards, assuming the recipients remain employed by us. During 2012, pursuant to the 2010 Plan, the Committee approved the issuance of 54,127 restricted shares of our Class B Common Stock at a weighted average price of $36.95 per share ($2.0 million in the aggregate) to our CEO and Chairman of the Board. These shares are scheduled to vest as follows: 50% on the first anniversary date of the grant, and 25% on each of the second and third anniversary dates of the grant, assuming our CEO remains employed by us. In the event that our CEO’s employment is terminated for reasons other than death, disability or retirement, any unvested shares will be forfeited, unless otherwise specified in a separation agreement between us and our CEO. 27,063 of these shares became fully vested during 2013. In connection with this grant, we recorded compensation expense of approximately $523,000 during 2013 and approximately $1 million during 2012. The remaining expense associated with these awards (estimated at approximately $500,000 as of December 31, 2013) will be recorded over the remaining vesting periods of the awards, assuming the recipient remain employed by us. During 2011, pursuant to the 2010 Plan, the Committee approved the issuance of 21,500 restricted shares of our Class B Common Stock at a weighted average price of $53.21 per share ($1.1 million in the aggregate) to various employees, of which 10,000 of these shares became fully vested during 2013. During 2012, 750 of these shares became fully vested and 750 of these shares were cancelled. The remaining 10,000 shares are scheduled to vest on the third anniversary of the grant date. We recorded compensation expense of $354,000 during 2013, $370,000 during 2012 and $198,000 during 2011 in connection with these grants. The remaining expense associated with these awards (estimated at $183,000 as of December 31, 2013) will be recorded over the remaining vesting period of the awards, assuming the recipients remain employed by us. The 2001 Plan, as described above, expired in March, 2010. Under this plan, we had 2.4 million shares of Class B Common Stock reserved for issuance and have issued approximately 1.2 million shares, net of cancellations, pursuant to the terms of this plan as of December 31, 2010, of which 39,831 became fully vesting during 2013, 62,044 became fully vested during 2012 and 78,133 became fully vested during 2011. During the first quarter of 2010, pursuant to the 2001 Plan and prior to its expiration, the Committee approved the issuance of 49,472 restricted shares of our Class B Common Stock at $30.32 per share ($1.5 million in the aggregate) to our CEO and Chairman of the Board. These shares, which were issued pursuant to a provision in our CEO’s employment agreement, are scheduled to vest ratably on the first, second, third and fourth anniversary dates of the grant, assuming our CEO remains employed by us. In the event that our CEO’s employment is terminated by reason of disability, death, without proper cause or due to breach of the CEO’s employment agreement by us, the vesting of these awards will occur immediately. 12,368 of these shares became fully vested in each of 2013, 2012 and 2011. In connection with this grant, we recorded compensation expense of $375,000 in each of 2013, 2012 and 2011 and $355,000 during 2010, and the remaining expense associated with this award (estimated at $20,000 as of December 31, 2013) will be recorded over the remaining vesting period of the award. During the first quarter of 2009, pursuant to the 2001 Plan, the Committee approved the issuance of 109,850 restricted shares of our Class B Common Stock at $20.26 per share ($2.2 million in the aggregate) to our CEO. 127 Table of Contents These shares are scheduled to vest ratably on the first, second, third and fourth anniversary dates of the grant and are subject to the same conditions and terms as mentioned above in connection with the grant of restricted shares during the first quarter of 2010. 27,463 of these shares became fully vested in 2013, 27,462 of these shares became fully vested in each of 2012 and 2011 and 27,463 of these shares became fully vested in 2010. In connection with this grant, we recorded compensation expense of approximately $74,000 during 2013, $556,000 during each of 2012, 2011 and 2010 and $482,000 during 2009. This award was fully vested at December 31, 2013. During the first quarter of 2008, pursuant to the 2001 Plan, the Committee approved the issuance of 62,190 restricted shares of our Class B Common Stock at $24.12 per share ($1.5 million in the aggregate) to our CEO. These shares were scheduled to vest ratably on the first, second, third and fourth anniversary dates of the grant and were subject to the same conditions and terms as mentioned above in connection with the grant of restricted shares during the first quarter of 2010. 15,548 and 15,546 of these shares became fully vesting during 2012 and 2011, respectively, and 15,548 of these shares became fully vested in each of 2010 and 2009. In connection with this grant, we recorded compensation expense of $15,000 during 2012 and $375,000 during 2011. This award was fully vested at December 31, 2012. During the fourth quarter of 2007, pursuant to the 2001 Plan, the Committee approved the issuance of 61,362 restricted shares of our Class B Common Stock at $24.45 per share ($1.5 million in the aggregate) to our CEO. These shares were scheduled to vest ratably on the first, second, third and fourth anniversary dates of the grant and were subject to the same conditions and terms as mentioned above in connection with the grant of restricted shares during the first quarter of 2010. 15,341 of these shares became fully vested in each of 2011 and 2010 and 15,340 of these shares became fully vested in each of 2009 and 2008. In connection with this grant, we recorded compensation expense of $333,000 during 2011 and $375,000 during 2010. This award was fully vested at December 31, 2011. Additionally, during 2007, pursuant to the 2001 Plan, the Committee approved the issuance of 22,250 restricted shares of our Class B Common stock at a weighted average of $29.62 per share ($659,000 in the aggregate) to various employees. These shares had various vesting schedules. We recorded compensation expense of $42,000 during 2012 and $120,000 during 2011, in connection with these grants. These awards were fully vested at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2013, 25,657,523 shares of Class B Common Stock were reserved for issuance upon conversion of shares of Class A, C and D Common Stock outstanding, for issuance upon exercise of options to purchase Class B Common Stock and for issuance of stock under other incentive plans. Class A, C and D Common Stock are convertible on a share for share basis into Class B Common Stock. In connection with the long-term incentive plans described above, we recorded compensation expense of $2.0 million in 2013, $2.8 million in 2012 and $2.4 million in 2011. Including the compensation expense recognized related to outstanding stock options of $25.8 million in 2013, $20.1 million in 2012 and $15.8 million in 2011, we recorded a total stock compensation expense of $27.8 million in 2013, $22.5 million in 2012 and $18.2 million in 2011. 128 Table of Contents 6) INCOME TAXES Components of income tax expense/(benefit) are as follows (amounts in thousands): Deferred taxes are required to be classified based on the financial statement classification of the related assets and liabilities which give rise to temporary differences. Deferred taxes result from temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. The components of deferred taxes are as follows (amounts in thousands): There was no material impact of deferred taxes recorded in conjunction with the acquisition of Ascend Health Corporation. 129 Table of Contents The effective tax rates, as calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by income before income taxes, were as follows for each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 (dollar amounts in thousands): Impacting the effective tax rates during 2013, 2012 and 2011 were favorable discrete tax items of approximately $1 million recorded during each year to adjust the estimated liabilities for uncertain tax positions. A reconciliation between the federal statutory rate and the effective tax rate is as follows: Included in “Other current assets” on our Consolidated Balance Sheet are prepaid federal, foreign, and state income taxes amounting to approximately $5 million and $7 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The net deferred tax assets and liabilities are comprised as follows (amounts in thousands): The assets and liabilities classified as current relate primarily to the allowance for uncollectible patient accounts, compensation-related accruals and the current portion of the temporary differences related to self- insurance reserves. At December 31, 2013, state net operating loss carryforwards (expiring in years 2014 through 2033), and credit carryforwards available to offset future taxable income approximated $959 million, representing approximately $47 million in deferred state tax benefit (net of the federal benefit). At December 31, 2013, there were foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $8 million expiring through 2021 representing approximately $3 million in deferred foreign tax benefit. 130 Table of Contents A valuation allowance is required when it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that certain of our state tax benefits will not be realized. Therefore, valuation allowances of approximately $44 million and $41 million have been reflected as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. During 2013, the valuation allowance on these state tax benefits increased by approximately $3 million due to additional net operating losses incurred. In addition, valuation allowances of approximately $3 million have been reflected as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 related to foreign net operating losses. There were no significant increases in valuation allowances as a result of the acquisition of Ascend Health Corporation. We adopted the provisions of Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes effective January 1, 2007. During 2013 and 2012, the estimated liabilities for uncertain tax positions (including accrued interest and penalties) were increased less than $1 million due to tax positions taken in the current and prior years. During 2013, the estimated liabilities for uncertain tax positions (including accrued interest and penalties) were reduced due to the lapse of the statute of limitations resulting in a net income tax benefit of approximately $1 million. The balance at each of December 31, 2013 and 2012, if subsequently recognized, that would favorably affect the effective tax rate and the provision for income taxes is approximately $2 million and $4 million, respectively. We recognize accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the tax provision. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we have accrued interest and penalties of less than $1 million as of each date. The U.S. federal statute of limitations remains open for the 2010 and subsequent years. Foreign and U.S. state and local jurisdictions have statutes of limitations generally ranging for 3 to 4 years. The statute of limitations on certain jurisdictions could expire within the next twelve months. It is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change during the next 12 months, however, it is anticipated that any such change, if it were to occur, would not have a material impact on our results of operations. The tabular reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 is as follows (amounts in thousands). 7) LEASE COMMITMENTS Four of our hospital facilities are held under operating leases with Universal Health Realty Income Trust with terms expiring in 2014 and 2016 (see Note 9 for additional disclosure). We also lease the real property of certain facilities acquired by us in connection with the acquisition of PSI in November, 2010 and the acquisition of Ascend in October, 2012 (see