.” This item contains important cautionary statements and a discussion of the known factors that we consider could materially affect the accuracy of our forward-looking statements and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. There may be additional risks that we consider immaterial or which are not known. Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Subject to any continuing obligations under applicable law or any relevant stock exchange rules, we expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the date of this Form 10-K, any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based. None. As of January 22, 2014, the Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc headquarters and our larger shoreside locations are as follows: In addition, we own, lease or have controlling interests in port facilities in Barcelona, Spain; Cozumel, Mexico; Grand Turk, Turks & Caicos Islands; Juneau, Alaska; Long Beach, California; Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic and Roatán, Honduras. Holland America Line’s and Princess’ private islands, Half Moon Cay and Princess Cays ® , respectively, are briefly described in Part I, Item 1. Business. B. “Cruise Business.” The hotel properties owned and operated by Holland America Princess Alaska Tours and the cruise ship that we own and charter-out under a long-term bareboat charter agreement are also briefly described in Part I, Item 1. Business. B. “Cruise Business.” Information about our cruise ships, including the number each of our cruise brands operates, their passenger capacity and their primary regions or countries from which they source their guests, as well as information regarding our cruise ships under construction may be found under Part I, Item 1. Business. B. “Cruise Business,” and Note 6, “Commitments” and Note 11, “Fair Value Measurements, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. Also, information about maritime regulations and issues that may affect our cruise ships can be found in Part I. Item 1. Business. B. “Cruise Business – Maritime Regulations.” Our cruise ships in operation, headquarters, ports, private islands and other shoreside facilities, including Holland America Princess Alaska Tours’ properties are all well maintained and in good condition. We evaluate our needs periodically and obtain additional facilities when deemed necessary. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs. On June 25, 2012, an action was filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California naming as defendants Carnival Corporation, Costa Crociere S.p.A., Micky Arison, Howard Frank, Arnold Donald, Joseph Farcus, and Joseph Farcus, Architect, P.A. (Sandoval v. Carnival Corporation). The defendants have been served with the action, although the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed claims against Costa Crociere S.p.A. The action was filed by two plaintiffs in connection with the 2012 Ship Incident. The plaintiffs allege claims for design defect, negligent training and operations and gross negligence. On March 21, 2013, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the plaintiffs’ claims to Italy based on the forum non conveniens doctrine. The defendants also filed a motion for summary judgment on May 23, 2013. On December 31, 2013, the court denied both motions without prejudice to re-file. The court ordered plaintiffs to file a third amended complaint refining their causes of action by January 10, 2014. On January 10, 2014, the plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint against Carnival Corporation only. The complaint alleges negligence, gross negligence and res ipsa loquitur . The defendant has until January 29, 2014 to answer the complaint or file a new motion to dismiss. 40 Table of Contents On July 5, 2012, two actions were filed in the Circuit Court serving Miami-Dade County, Florida naming as defendants Carnival Corporation, Carnival Corporation & plc, Costa Cruise Lines, Inc., Costa Crociere S.p.A. and Joseph Farcus P.A. (Scimone v. Carnival Corp. and Abeid-Saba v. Carnival Corp). The defendants have been served with the action. The plaintiffs filed the actions in connection with the 2012 Ship Incident. The plaintiffs allege claims for negligence, product liability, professional negligence and intentional tort. The complaints seek economic and compensatory damages, attorneys’ fees, costs and interest. The plaintiffs state they will amend their complaints to state a claim for punitive damages. The defendants removed the cases to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida and moved to dismiss the plaintiffs’ claims to Italy based on forum non conveniens and the forum selection clauses in certain of the plaintiffs’ Passage Ticket Contracts. The plaintiffs filed motions to remand the cases back to state court. On February 15, 2013, the federal court granted the motions to remand, which were affirmed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit on July 1, 2013. On July 19, 2013, the state court assigned to hear Abeid-Saba granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss all the plaintiffs’ claims to Italy based on the forum non conveniens doctrine. The same day, the state court assigned to hear Scimone granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss all of the foreign plaintiffs’ claims to Italy based on the forum non conveniens doctrine; however, the motion was denied as to the 17 plaintiffs who are U.S. citizens. The plaintiffs have filed notices of appeal of the dismissal of the orders in both cases. In Scimone, the defendants have filed a notice of appeal from the denial of its motion to dismiss the claims of the U.S. plaintiffs. A motion to dismiss the claims of the U.S. plaintiffs in Scimone based on forum selection clauses in the Passage Ticket Contracts was heard on December 5, 2013 and a ruling is pending. On January 9, 2013, an action was filed in the Circuit Court serving Miami-Dade County naming as defendants Carnival Corporation, Carnival plc, Costa Crociere S.p.A. and Costa Cruise Lines, Inc. (Gual v. Carnival Corp.). The defendants were served on June 20, 2013. The plaintiffs, consisting of ten Spanish citizens, filed the action in connection with the 2012 Ship Incident. The plaintiffs allege claims are for maritime negligence, negligent hiring, supervision and retention, negligent training, gross negligence, intentional tortious conduct, intentional infliction of emotional distress, wrongful death under Florida law and breach of contract. The UK Maritime & Coastguard Agency and the U.S. Department of Justice are investigating allegations that Caribbean Princess breached international pollution laws. We are cooperating with the investigations, including conducting our own internal investigation into the matter. None. Executive Officers of the Registrants Pursuant to General Instruction G(3), the information regarding our executive officers called for by Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K is hereby included in Part I of this Form 10-K. The table below sets forth the name, age, years of service and title of each of our executive officers. Titles listed relate to positions within Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc unless otherwise noted. Business Experience of Executive Officers Micky Arison has been Chairman of the Boards of Directors since 1990 and a Director since 1987. He was Chief Executive Officer from 1979 to July 2013. 41 Table of Contents David Bernstein has been Chief Financial Officer since 2007. From 2003 to 2007, he was Treasurer. From 1998 to 2003, he was Chief Financial Officer of Cunard and Seabourn. Alan B. Buckelew has been Chief Operations Officer since December 2013. From 2007 to November 2013, he was Chief Executive Officer of Princess. He was President of Princess from 2004 to November 2013. From 2004 to 2007, he was also Chief Operating Officer of Cunard. Gerald R. Cahill has been President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Cruise Lines since 2007. From 1998 to 2007, he was Chief Financial and Accounting Officer. David Dingle has been Chief Executive Officer of Carnival UK since 2007. In this capacity, he has full operating responsibility for the UK brands, P&O Cruises (UK) and Cunard. From 2003 to 2007, he was Managing Director of Carnival UK and P&O Cruises (UK). From 2000 to 2003, he was Managing Director of P&O Cruises (UK). Arnold W. Donald has been President and Chief Executive Officer since July 2013. He has been a Director since 2001. He is also a Principal of AWDPLC LLC, a private investment company. From 2010 to 2012, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of The Executive Leadership Counsel, a professional network of African-American executives of major U.S. companies. He served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International from 2006 to 2008. Larry Freedman has been Chief Accounting Officer since 2007 and Controller since 1998. Josh Leibowitz has been Chief Strategy Office since October 2013 where he oversees strategic sourcing, cross-brand marketing and corporate strategy. From 2001 to October 2013, Mr. Leibowitz was employed by McKinsey & Co., an international consulting firm, where he ultimately served as Managing Partner of the Miami office. Stein Kruse has been the Chief Executive Officer of Holland America Group since December 2013. In this capacity, he has full operating responsibility for Holland America Line, Princess, Seabourn and Holland America Princess Alaska Tours. From 2004 to November 2013, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Holland America Line. Arnaldo Perez has been General Counsel and Secretary since 1995. Michael Thamm has been Chief Executive Officer of Costa Crociere S.p.A. since 2012. In this capacity, Mr. Thamm also has full operating responsibility for AIDA and Ibero. From 2004 to 2012, he was President of AIDA. PART II The information required by