Failure to obtain necessary state approval can result in our
inability to complete an acquisition, expansion or replacement, the imposition of civil or, in some cases, criminal sanctions, the inability to receive Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement or the revocation of a facility’s license, which could

 
 
7 

Table of Contents

harm our business. In addition, significant CON reforms have been proposed in a number of states that would increase the capital spending thresholds and provide exemptions of various services
from review requirements. In the past, we have not experienced any material adverse effects from those requirements, but we cannot predict the impact of these changes upon our operations. 

Conversion Legislation:
 Many states have enacted or are considering enacting laws affecting the conversion or sale of
not-for-profit hospitals to for-profit entities. These laws generally require prior approval from the attorney general, advance notification and community involvement. In addition, attorneys general in states without specific conversion legislation
may exercise discretionary authority over these transactions. Although the level of government involvement varies from state to state, the trend is to provide for increased governmental review and, in some cases, approval of a transaction in which a
not-for-profit entity sells a health care facility to a for-profit entity. The adoption of new or expanded conversion legislation and the increased review of not-for-profit hospital conversions may limit our ability to grow through acquisitions of
not-for-profit hospitals. 
 
Utilization Review:
 Federal regulations require that admissions and utilization of
facilities by Medicare and Medicaid patients must be reviewed in order to ensure efficient utilization of facilities and services. The law and regulations require Peer Review Organizations (“PROs”) to review the appropriateness of Medicare
and Medicaid patient admissions and discharges, the quality of care provided, the validity of diagnosis related group (“DRG”) classifications and the appropriateness of cases of extraordinary length of stay. PROs may deny payment for
services provided, assess fines and also have the authority to recommend to the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) that a provider that is in substantial non-compliance with the standards of the PRO be excluded from
participating in the Medicare program. We have contracted with PROs in each state where we do business to perform the required reviews. 
 
Audits:
 Most hospitals are subject to federal audits to validate the accuracy of Medicare and Medicaid program submitted claims. If these audits identify overpayments, we could be
required to pay a substantial rebate of prior years’ payments subject to various administrative appeal rights. The federal government contracts with third-party “recovery audit contractors” (“RACs”) and “Medicaid
integrity contractors” (“MICs”), on a contingent fee basis, to audit the propriety of payments to Medicare and Medicaid providers. Permanent RAC audits were created by Section 302 of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 and
required the secretary to expand the program to all 50 states by no later than 2010. Similarly, Medicare zone program integrity contractors (“ZPICs”) target claims for potential fraud and abuse. Additionally, Medicare administrative
contractors (“MACs”) must ensure they pay the right amount for covered and correctly coded services rendered to eligible beneficiaries by legitimate providers. We have undergone claims audits related to our receipt of federal healthcare
payments during the last three years with no material overpayments identified. However, potential liability from future federal or state audits could ultimately exceed established reserves, and any excess could potentially be
substantial. Further, Medicare and Medicaid regulations also provide for withholding Medicare and Medicaid overpayments in certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our cash flow. 

Self-Referral and Anti-Kickback Legislation 
 
The Stark Law:
 The Social Security Act includes a provision commonly known as the “Stark Law.” This law prohibits physicians from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to entities
with which they or any of their immediate family members have a financial relationship, unless an exception is met. These types of referrals are known as “self-referrals.” Sanctions for violating the Stark Law include civil penalties up to
$15,000 for each violation, up to $100,000 for sham arrangements, up to $10,000 for each day an entity fails to report required information and exclusion from the federal health care programs. There are a number of exceptions to the self-referral
prohibition, including an exception for a physician’s ownership interest in an entire hospital as opposed to an ownership interest in a hospital department unit, service or subpart. However, federal laws and regulations now limit the ability of
hospitals relying on this exception to expand aggregate physician ownership interest or to expand certain hospital facilities. There are also exceptions for many of the customary financial 

 
 
8 

Table of Contents

arrangements between physicians and providers, including employment contracts, leases and recruitment agreements that adhere to certain enumerated requirements. 

We monitor all aspects of our business and have developed a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that is designed to meet or
exceed applicable federal guidelines and industry standards. Nonetheless, because the law in this area is complex and constantly evolving, there can be no assurance that federal regulatory authorities will not determine that any of our arrangements
with physicians violate the Stark Law. 
 
Anti-kickback Statute:
 A provision of the Social Security Act known as the
“anti-kickback statute” prohibits healthcare providers and others from directly or indirectly soliciting, receiving, offering or paying money or other remuneration to other individuals and entities in return for using, referring, ordering,
recommending or arranging for such referrals or orders of services or other items covered by a federal or state health care program. However, recent changes to the anti-kickback statute have reduced the intent required for violation; one is no
longer required to “have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of” the anti-kickback statute in order to be found guilty of violating such law. 
 
The anti-kickback statute contains certain exceptions, and the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG”) has issued regulations that provide for
“safe harbors,” from the federal anti-kickback statute for various activities. These activities, which must meet certain requirements, include (but are not limited to) the following: investment interests, space rental, equipment rental,
practitioner recruitment, personnel services and management contracts, sale of practice, referral services, warranties, discounts, employees, group purchasing organizations, waiver of beneficiary coinsurance and deductible amounts, managed care
arrangements, obstetrical malpractice insurance subsidies, investments in group practices, freestanding surgery centers, donation of technology for electronic health records and referral agreements for specialty services. The fact that conduct or a
business arrangement does not fall within a safe harbor or exception does not automatically render the conduct or business arrangement illegal under the anti- kickback statute. However, such conduct and business arrangements may lead to increased
scrutiny by government enforcement authorities. 
 
Although we believe that our arrangements with physicians and other referral
sources have been structured to comply with current law and available interpretations, there can be no assurance that all arrangements comply with an available safe harbor or that regulatory authorities enforcing these laws will determine these
financial arrangements do not violate the anti-kickback statute or other applicable laws. Violations of the anti-kickback statute may be punished by a criminal fine of up to $25,000 for each violation or imprisonment, however, under 18 U.S.C.
Section 3571, this fine may be increased to $250,000 for individuals and $500,000 for organizations. Civil money penalties may include fines of up to $50,000 per violation and damages of up to three times the total amount of the
remuneration and/or exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid. 
 
Similar State Laws:
 Many of the states
in which we operate have adopted laws that prohibit payments to physicians in exchange for referrals similar to the anti-kickback statute and the Stark Law, some of which apply regardless of the source of payment for care. These statutes typically
provide criminal and civil penalties as well as loss of licensure. In many instances, the state statutes provide that any arrangement falling in a federal safe harbor will be immune from scrutiny under the state statutes. However, in most cases,
little precedent exists for the interpretation or enforcement of these state laws. 
 
These laws and regulations are extremely
complex and, in many cases, we don’t have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. It is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current or past practices to
allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. A determination that we have violated one or more of these laws, or
the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of one or more of these laws (see “Legal Proceedings”), could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and
our business reputation 

 
 
9 

Table of Contents

could suffer significantly. In addition, we cannot predict whether other legislation or regulations at the federal or state level will be adopted, what form such legislation or regulations may
take or what their impact on us may be. 
 
If we are deemed to have failed to comply with the anti-kickback statute, the Stark
Law or other applicable laws and regulations, we could be subjected to liabilities, including criminal penalties, civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to operate one or more facilities), and exclusion of one or more facilities from
participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. The imposition of such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

Federal False Claims Act and Similar State Regulations:
 A current trend affecting the health care industry is the increased
use of the federal False Claims Act, and, in particular, actions being brought by individuals on the government’s behalf under the False Claims Act’s qui tam, or whistleblower, provisions. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals
to bring actions on behalf of the government by alleging that the defendant has defrauded the Federal government. 
 
When a
defendant is determined by a court of law to have violated the False Claims Act, the defendant may be liable for up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 to $11,000 for each
separate false claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. Liability often arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act
has expanded the number of actions for which liability may attach under the False Claims Act, eliminating requirements that false claims be presented to federal officials or directly involve federal funds. The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act also
clarifies that a false claim violation occurs upon the knowing retention, as well as the receipt, of overpayments. In addition, recent changes to the anti-kickback statute have made violations of that law punishable under the civil False Claims Act.
Further, a number of states have adopted their own false claims provisions as well as their own whistleblower provisions whereby a private party may file a civil lawsuit on behalf of the state in state court. 

Other Fraud and Abuse Provisions:
 The Social Security Act also imposes criminal and civil penalties for submitting false
claims to Medicare and Medicaid. False claims include, but are not limited to, billing for services not rendered, billing for services without prescribed documentation, misrepresenting actual services rendered in order to obtain higher reimbursement
and cost report fraud. Like the anti-kickback statute, these provisions are very broad. 
 
Further, the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) broadened the scope of the fraud and abuse laws by adding several criminal provisions for health care fraud offenses that apply to all health benefit programs, whether or not payments
under such programs are paid pursuant to federal programs. HIPAA also introduced enforcement mechanisms to prevent fraud and abuse in Medicare. There are civil penalties for prohibited conduct, including, but not limited to billing for medically
unnecessary products or services. 
 
HIPAA Administrative Simplification and Privacy Requirements:
 The
administrative simplification provisions of HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”), require the use of uniform electronic data transmission standards for health care claims
and payment transactions submitted or received electronically. These provisions are intended to encourage electronic commerce in the health care industry. HIPAA also established federal rules protecting the privacy and security of personal health
information. The privacy and security regulations address the use and disclosure of individual health care information and the rights of patients to understand and control how such information is used and disclosed. Violations of HIPAA can result in
both criminal and civil fines and penalties. 
 
Compliance with the electronic data transmission standards became mandatory in
October 2003. However, during the following year, HHS agreed to allow providers and other electronic billers to continue to submit pre-HIPAA format electronic claims for periods after October 16, 2003, provided they can show good faith

 
 
10 

Table of Contents

efforts to become HIPAA compliant. Since this exception expired, we believe that we have been in compliance with the electronic data transmission standards. 

We were required to comply with the privacy requirements of HIPAA by April 14, 2003. We believe that we were in material compliance
with the privacy regulations by that date and remain so, as we continue to develop training and revise procedures to address ongoing compliance. The HIPAA security regulations require health care providers to implement administrative, physical and
technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of patient information. HITECH has since strengthened certain HIPAA rules regarding the use and disclosure of protected health information, extended certain HIPAA
provisions to business associates, and created new security breach notification requirements. HITECH has also extended the ability to impose civil money penalties on providers not knowing that a HIPAA violation has occurred. We were required to
comply with the security regulations by April 20, 2005 and believe that we have been in substantial compliance with HIPAA and HITECH requirements to date. 
 
Environmental Regulations:
 Our healthcare operations generate medical waste that must be disposed of in compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations.
Infectious waste generators, including hospitals, face substantial penalties for improper disposal of medical waste, including civil penalties of up to $25,000 per day of noncompliance, criminal penalties of up to $50,000 per day, imprisonment, and
remedial costs. In addition, our operations, as well as our purchases and sales of facilities are subject to various other environmental laws, rules and regulations. We believe that our disposal of such wastes is in material compliance with all
state and federal laws. 
 
Corporate Practice of Medicine:
 Several states, including Florida, Nevada and Texas, have
laws and/or regulations that prohibit corporations and other entities from employing physicians and practicing medicine for a profit or that prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between health care providers
that are designed to induce or encourage the referral of patients to, or the recommendation of, particular providers for medical products and services. Possible sanctions for violation of these restrictions include loss of license and civil and
criminal penalties. In addition, agreements between the corporation and the physician may be considered void and unenforceable. These statutes and/or regulations vary from state to state, are often vague and have seldom been interpreted by the
courts or regulatory agencies. We do not expect these state corporate practice of medicine proscriptions to significantly affect our operations. Many states have laws and regulations which prohibit payments for referral of patients and fee-splitting
with physicians. We do not make any such payments or have any such arrangements. 
 
EMTALA:
 All of our hospitals are
subject to the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (“EMTALA”). This federal law generally requires hospitals that are certified providers under Medicare to conduct a medical screening examination of every person who visits the
hospital’s emergency room for treatment and, if the patient is suffering from a medical emergency, to either stabilize the patient’s condition or transfer the patient to a facility that can better handle the condition. Our obligation to
screen and stabilize emergency medical conditions exists regardless of a patient’s ability to pay for treatment. There are severe penalties under EMTALA if a hospital fails to screen or appropriately stabilize or transfer a patient or if the
hospital delays appropriate treatment in order to first inquire about the patient’s ability to pay. Penalties for violations of EMTALA include civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare program. In addition to any
liabilities that a hospital may incur under EMTALA, an injured patient, the patient’s family or a medical facility that suffers a financial loss as a direct result of another hospital’s violation of the law can bring a civil suit against
the hospital unrelated to the rights granted under that statute. 
 
The federal government broadly interprets EMTALA to cover
situations in which patients do not actually present to a hospital’s emergency room, but present for emergency examination or treatment to the hospital’s campus, generally, or to a hospital-based clinic that treats emergency medical
conditions or are transported in a hospital-owned ambulance, subject to certain exceptions. EMTALA does not generally apply to patients admitted for inpatient services; however, CMS has recently announced its intent to issue proposed rulemaking
concerning 

 
 
11 

Table of Contents

the applicability of EMTALA to hospital inpatients and the responsibilities of hospitals with specialized capabilities, respectively. The government also has expressed its intent to investigate
and enforce EMTALA violations actively in the future. We believe that we operate in substantial compliance with EMTALA. 

Health Care Industry Investigations:
 We are subject to claims and suits in the ordinary course of business, including those
arising from care and treatment afforded by our hospitals and are party to various government investigations and litigation. Please see 
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
 included herein for disclosure related to False Claim Act case against
certain of our behavioral health care facilities located in Virginia and California and a False Claim Act investigation being conducted in connection with the implementation of implantable cardioverter defibrillators from 2003 to the present at
several of our acute care facilities. 
 
We monitor all aspects of our business and have developed a comprehensive ethics and
compliance program that is designed to meet or exceed applicable federal guidelines and industry standards. Because the law in this area is complex and constantly evolving, governmental investigation or litigation may result in interpretations that
are inconsistent with industry practices, including ours. Although we believe our policies, procedures and practices comply with governmental regulations, no assurance can be given that we will not be subjected to inquiries or actions, or that we
will not be faced with sanctions, fines or penalties in connection with the investigations. Even if we were to ultimately prevail, the government’s inquiry and/or action in connection with these matters could have a material adverse effect on
our future operating results. 
 
Our substantial Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental billings may result in heightened
scrutiny of our operations. It is possible that governmental entities could initiate additional investigations or litigation in the future and that such matters could result in significant penalties as well as adverse publicity. It is also possible
that our executives and/or managers could be included as targets or witnesses in governmental investigations or litigation and/or named as defendants in private litigation. 
 
Revenue Rulings 98-15 and 2004-51:
 In March 1998 and May 2004, the IRS issued guidance regarding the tax consequences of joint ventures between for-profit and not-for-profit hospitals. As
a result of the tax rulings, the IRS has proposed, and may in the future propose, to revoke the tax-exempt or public charity status of certain not-for-profit entities which participate in such joint ventures or to treat joint venture income as
unrelated business taxable income to them. The tax rulings have limited development of joint ventures and any adverse determination by the IRS or the courts regarding the tax-exempt or public charity status of a not-for-profit partner or the
characterization of joint venture income as unrelated business taxable income could further limit joint venture development with not-for-profit hospitals, and/or require the restructuring of certain existing joint ventures with not-for-profits.

 
State Rate Review:
 Some states where we operate hospitals have adopted legislation mandating rate or budget
review for hospitals or have adopted taxes on hospital revenues, assessments or licensure fees to fund indigent health care within the state. In the aggregate, state rate reviews and indigent tax provisions have not materially, adversely affected
our results of operations. 
 
Compliance Program:
 Our company-wide compliance program has been in place since 1998.
Currently, the program’s elements include a Code of Conduct, risk area specific policies and procedures, employee education and training, an internal system for reporting concerns, auditing and monitoring programs, and a means for enforcing the
program’s policies. 
 
Since its initial adoption, the compliance program continues to be expanded and developed to meet
the industry’s expectations and our needs. Specific written policies, procedures, training and educational materials and programs, as well as auditing and monitoring activities have been prepared and implemented to address the functional and
operational aspects of our business. Specific areas identified through regulatory interpretation and enforcement activities have also been addressed in our program. Claims preparation and submission, including coding, billing, and cost reports,
comprise the bulk of these areas. Financial arrangements with physicians and 

 
 
12 

Table of Contents

other referral sources, including compliance with anti-kickback and Stark laws and emergency department treatment and transfer requirements are also the focus of policy and training, standardized
documentation requirements, and review and audit. 
 
Medical Staff and Employees 

Our facilities had approximately 65,100 employees on December 31, 2010, of whom approximately 49,700 were employed full-time.
Approximately 24,000 of these employees (approximately 19,300 full-time employees) are employed by the facilities acquired by us in connection with our acquisition of PSI in November, 2010. Our hospitals are staffed by licensed physicians who have
been admitted to the medical staff of individual hospitals. Typically, physicians are not employees of our hospitals and in a number of our markets may have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to ours. Within our acute care division,
approximately 125 physicians are employed either directly by certain of our facilities or affiliated by group practices structured as 501A corporations. Members of the medical staffs of our hospitals also serve on the medical staffs of hospitals not
owned by us and may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. In addition, we employ approximately 250 psychiatrists within our behavioral health division. Each of our hospitals are managed on a day-to-day basis by a managing
director employed by us. In addition, a Board of Governors, including members of the hospital’s medical staff, governs the medical, professional and ethical practices at each hospital. 

Approximately 2,100 of our employees at seven of our hospitals are unionized. At Valley Hospital Medical Center, unionized employees
belong to the Culinary Workers and Bartenders Union, the International Union of Operating Engineers and the Service Employees International Union (“SEIU”). Nurses and technicians at Desert Springs Hospital are represented by the SEIU.
Registered nurses at Auburn Regional Medical Center located in Washington, are represented by the United Staff Nurses Union, the technical employees are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers, and the service employees are represented
by the SEIU. At The George Washington University Hospital, unionized employees are represented by the SEIU or the Hospital Police Association. Registered Nurses, Licensed Practical Nurses, certain technicians and therapists, pharmacy assistants, and
some clerical employees at HRI Hospital in Boston are represented by the SEIU. At Pennsylvania Clinical Schools, unionized employees are represented by the District Council 88, American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees—AFL-CIO. At Brooke Glen Behavioral Hospital, unionized employees are represented by the Teamsters and the Northwestern Nurses Association/Pennsylvania Association of Staff Nurses and Allied Professionals. We believe that our relations
with our employees are satisfactory. 
 
Competition 

The health care industry is highly competitive. In recent years, competition among healthcare providers for patients has intensified in
the United States due to, among other things, regulatory and technological changes, increasing use of managed care payment systems, cost containment pressures and a shift toward outpatient treatment. In all of the geographical areas in which we
operate, there are other hospitals that provide services comparable to those offered by our hospitals. In addition, some of our competitors include hospitals that are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or by nonprofit corporations and may
be supported by endowments and charitable contributions and exempt from property, sale and income taxes. Such exemptions and support are not available to us. 
 
In some markets, certain of our competitors may have greater financial resources, be better equipped and offer a broader range of services than us. Certain hospitals that are located in the areas served
by our facilities are specialty or large hospitals that provide medical, surgical and behavioral health services, facilities and equipment that are not available at our hospitals. The increase in outpatient treatment and diagnostic facilities,
outpatient surgical centers and freestanding ambulatory surgical also increases competition for us. 
 
The number and quality of
the physicians on a hospital’s staff are important factors in determining a hospital’s success and competitive advantage. Typically, physicians are responsible for making hospital 

 
 
13 

Table of Contents

admissions decisions and for directing the course of patient treatment. We believe that physicians refer patients to a hospital primarily on the basis of the patient’s needs, the quality of
other physicians on the medical staff, the location of the hospital and the breadth and scope of services offered at the hospital’s facilities. We strive to retain and attract qualified doctors by maintaining high ethical and professional
standards and providing adequate support personnel, technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians. 
 
In addition, we depend on the efforts, abilities, and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians and other health care professionals. We compete
with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. Our acute care and behavioral health care facilities are experiencing the effects of a shortage of skilled nursing staff
nationwide, which has caused and may continue to cause an increase in salaries, wages and benefits expense in excess of the inflation rate. In addition, in some markets like California, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing
levels. To the extent we cannot meet those levels, we may by required to limit the healthcare services provided in these markets which would have a corresponding adverse effect on our net operating revenues. 

Many states in which we operate hospitals have CON laws. The application process for approval of additional covered services, new
facilities, changes in operations and capital expenditures is, therefore, highly competitive in these states. In those states that do not have CON laws or which set relatively high levels of expenditures before they become reviewable by state
authorities, competition in the form of new services, facilities and capital spending is more prevalent. See “Regulation and Other Factors.” 
 
Our ability to negotiate favorable service contracts with purchasers of group health care services also affects our competitive position and significantly affects the revenues and operating results of our
hospitals. Managed care plans attempt to direct and control the use of hospital services and to demand that we accept lower rates of payment. In addition, employers and traditional health insurers are increasingly interested in containing costs
through negotiations with hospitals for managed care programs and discounts from established charges. In return, hospitals secure commitments for a larger number of potential patients. Generally, hospitals compete for service contracts with group
health care service purchasers on the basis of price, market reputation, geographic location, quality and range of services, quality of the medical staff and convenience. The importance of obtaining contracts with managed care organizations varies
from market to market depending on the market strength of such organizations. 
 
A key element of our growth strategy is
expansion through the acquisition of additional hospitals in select markets. The competition to acquire hospitals is significant. We face competition for acquisition candidates primarily from other for-profit health care companies, as well as from
not-for-profit entities. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do. We intend to selectively seek opportunities to expand our base of operations by adhering to our disciplined program of rational growth, but may not be successful in
accomplishing acquisitions on favorable terms. 
 
Relationship with Universal Health Realty Income Trust

 
At December 31, 2010, we held approximately 6.2% of the outstanding shares of Universal Health Realty Income
Trust (the “Trust”). We serve as Advisor to the Trust under an annually renewable advisory agreement pursuant to the terms of which we conduct the Trust’s day-to-day affairs, provide administrative services and present investment
opportunities. In addition, certain of our officers and directors are also officers and/or directors of the Trust. Management believes that it has the ability to exercise significant influence over the Trust, therefore we account for our investment
in the Trust using the equity method of accounting. We earned an advisory fee from the Trust, which is included in net revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of income, of approximately $1.8 million during 2010 and $1.6 million during
each of 2009 and 2008. Our pre-tax share of income from the Trust was $1.0 million during 2010, $1.1 million during 2009 and $900,000 during 2008 and is included in net revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of income for each year.
The 

 
 
14 

Table of Contents

carrying value of this investment was $7.3 million and $8.1 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and is included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets. The market value of this investment was $28.8 million at December 31, 2010 and $25.2 million at December 31, 2009, based on the closing price of the Trust’s stock on the respective dates. 

Total rent expense under the operating leases on the hospital facilities with the Trust was $16.2 million during 2010, $16.3 million
during 2009 and $16.1 million during 2008. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are tenants in several medical office buildings owned by limited liability companies in which the Trust holds non-controlling ownership interests. 

The Trust commenced operations in 1986 by purchasing certain properties from us and immediately leasing the properties back to our
respective subsidiaries. Most of the leases were entered into at the time the Trust commenced operations and provided for initial terms of 13 to 15 years with up to six additional 5-year renewal terms. Each lease also provided for additional or
bonus rental, as discussed below. The base rents are paid monthly and the bonus rents are computed and paid on a quarterly basis, based upon a computation that compares current quarter revenue to a corresponding quarter in the base year. The leases
with our subsidiaries are unconditionally guaranteed by us and are cross-defaulted with one another. 
 
Pursuant to the terms of
the leases with the Trust, we have the option to renew the leases at the lease terms described above by providing notice to the Trust at least 90 days prior to the termination of the then current term. In addition, we have rights of first refusal
to: (i) purchase the respective leased facilities during and for 180 days after the lease terms at the same price, terms and conditions of any third-party offer, or; (ii) renew the lease on the respective leased facility at the end of, and
for 180 days after, the lease term at the same terms and conditions pursuant to any third-party offer. We also have the right to purchase the respective leased facilities at the end of the lease terms or any renewal terms at the appraised fair
market value. In addition, during 2006, as part of the overall exchange and substitution transaction relating to Chalmette Medical Center (“Chalmette”) which was completed during the third quarter of 2006, as well as the early five year
lease renewals on Southwest Healthcare System-Inland Valley Campus (“Inland Valley”), Wellington Regional Medical Center (“Wellington”), McAllen Medical Center and The Bridgeway (“Bridgeway”), the Trust agreed to amend
the Master Lease to include a change of control provision. The change of control provision grants us the right, upon one month’s notice should a change of control of the Trust occur, to purchase any or all of the four leased hospital properties
at their appraised fair market value purchase price. 
 
The table below details the renewal options and terms for each of our
four hospital facilities leased from the Trust: 
 
 

 
 

 
 
15 

Table of Contents

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The executive officers, whose terms will expire at such time as their successors are elected, are as follows: 

 

 
Mr. Alan B. Miller has been Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since inception and also served as President from inception until May, 2009. Prior thereto, he was President,
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of American Medicorp, Inc. He currently serves as Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Universal Health Realty Income Trust. Mr. Miller also serves as a Director of
Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company. He is the father of Marc D. Miller, President and Director. 
 
Mr. Marc D. Miller
was elected President in May, 2009 and prior thereto served as Senior Vice President and co-head of our Acute Care Hospitals since 2007. He was elected a Director in May, 2006 and Vice President in 2005. He has served in various capacities related
to our acute care division since 2000. He was elected to the Board of Trustees of Universal Health Realty Income Trust in December, 2008. He is the son of Alan B. Miller, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. 

Mr. Filton was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2003 and he was elected Secretary in 1999. He had served
as Vice President and Controller since 1991 and Director of Corporate Accounting since 1985. 
 
Ms. Osteen was elected
Senior Vice President in 2005 and serves as President of our Behavioral Health Care Division. She was elected Vice President in 2000 and has served in various capacities related to our Behavioral Health Care facilities since 1984. 

 

 
We are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Any of the events described below could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are not aware of, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also impact our business and results of operations. 

A significant portion of our revenue is produced by facilities located in Nevada, Texas and California. 

Nevada:
 We own 6 acute care hospitals and 6 behavioral healthcare facilities as listed in