. These risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results for the year 2014 and beyond to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement we make. Any projections of growth in our revenues would not necessarily result in commensurate levels of earnings. Our future financial performance is dependent upon factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K and our other SEC filings. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS W. R. Berkley Corporation is an insurance holding company that is among the largest commercial lines writers in the United States. It operates in the following segments of the property casualty insurance business: Each of our three business segments is composed of individual operating units that serve a market defined by geography, products, services or types of customers. Each of our operating units is positioned close to its customer base and participates in a niche market requiring specialized knowledge about a territory or product. This strategy of decentralized operations allows each of our units to identify and respond quickly and effectively to changing market conditions and local customer needs, while capitalizing on the benefits of centralized capital, investment and reinsurance management, and corporate actuarial, financial, enterprise risk management and legal staff support. Our business approach is focused on meeting the needs of our customers, maintaining a high quality balance sheet, and allocating capital to our best opportunities. New businesses are started when opportunities are identified and when the right talent and expertise are found to lead a business. Of our 49 operating units, 42 have been organized and developed internally and seven have been added through acquisition. Of these units, 24 have been formed since 2006. Net premiums written, as reported based on United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), for each of our operating segments for each of the past five years were as follows: Twenty-six of our twenty-seven insurance company subsidiaries rated by A.M. Best Company, Inc. (“A.M. Best”) have ratings of A+ (Superior) (the second highest rating out of 15 possible ratings), and one is rated A (Excellent) (the third highest rating). A.M. Best's ratings are based upon factors of concern to policyholders, insurance agents and brokers and are not directed toward the protection of investors. A.M. Best states: “The Financial Strength Rating opinion addresses the relative ability of an insurer to meet its ongoing insurance obligations. The ratings are not assigned to specific insurance policies or contracts and do not address any other risk.” A.M. Best reviews its ratings on a periodic basis, and its ratings of the Company's subsidiaries are therefore subject to change. The twenty-three insurance company subsidiaries rated by Standard & Poor's (“S&P”) have financial strength ratings of A+ (the seventh highest rating out of twenty-seven possible ratings). Our Moody's ratings are A2 for Berkley Insurance Company, Berkley Regional Insurance Company and Admiral Insurance Company (the sixth highest rating out of twenty-one possible ratings). 1 The following sections describe our reporting segments and their operating units in greater detail. These operating units underwrite on behalf of one or more affiliated insurance companies within the group. Certain operating units are identified by us herein for descriptive purposes only and are not legal entities. Unless otherwise indicated, all references in this Form 10-K to “W. R. Berkley,” “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or similar terms refer to W. R. Berkley Corporation together with its subsidiaries and operating units. W. R. Berkley Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed in 1970. Insurance-Domestic Certain of our Insurance -Domestic operating units underwrite specialty risks within the excess and surplus lines market and on an admitted basis. The risks are highly complex, often unique exposures that typically fall outside the underwriting guidelines of the standard insurance market or are best served by specialized knowledge of a particular industry. The specialty lines of business include premises operations, commercial automobile, property, products liability and professional liability lines. The customers are highly diverse. Each operating unit delivers their products through a variety of distribution channels, depending on the customer base and particular risks insured. Other operating units provide insurance products and services that meet the specific needs of each regionally differentiated customer base by developing expertise in the niches that drive local communities. They provide commercial insurance products to customers primarily in 45 states and the District of Columbia. Key clients of these units are small-to-mid-sized businesses and state and local governmental entities. Business is sold through a network of non-exclusive independent agents who are compensated on a commission basis. These operating units are organized geographically in order to provide them with the flexibility to adapt quickly to local market conditions and customer needs. Often, alternative methods of risk management result in our customers choosing to retain more risk than they might otherwise retain in the traditional insurance market. To address this need, our operating units offer insurance products, analytical tools and risk management services such as loss control and claims management that enable clients to select their risk tolerance and manage it appropriately. These units specialize in insuring, reinsuring and administering self-insurance programs and other alternative risk transfer mechanisms for clients such as commercial and governmental entity employers, employer groups, insurers, and other groups or entities seeking alternative ways to manage their exposure to risks. In addition to providing insurance products, the alternative markets units also provide a wide variety of fee-based services, including claims, administrative and consulting services. Operating units comprising the Insurance-Domestic segment are as follows: Acadia Insurance is a Northeast regional property casualty underwriter offering a broad portfolio of products exclusively through local independent agents in Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York and Vermont. In addition to its general offerings, Acadia has specialized expertise in insuring regional businesses and industries such as construction, lumber and fishing. Admiral Insurance provides excess and surplus lines coverage for commercial risks that generally consist of hard-to- place, specialized risks that involve moderate to high degrees of hazard. Its lines of business include general liability, professional liability, property, and excess and umbrella coverage. Admiral's professional liability and program operations include special coverages for technology, ambulatory surgery centers, chiropractors and concierge physicians. Its products are distributed exclusively by wholesale brokers. American Mining Insurance offers workers' compensation insurance as well as general liability, automobile, and excess liability coverages to a broad range of firms within the mining and aggregate industries in the United States. It also serves as a third-party administrator of workers' compensation mining claims for clients in several states. Berkley Accident and Health underwrites accident and health insurance and reinsurance products in four primary areas: medical stop loss, managed care, special risk and group captive. It has a diversified product and service portfolio serving a range of clients from small employers, health care organizations, and membership groups to Fortune 500 companies. Berkley Asset Protection provides products designed to protect a broad spectrum of high-value commercial and personal assets, including coverage for fine art risks such as museums, galleries and corporate and private collections; fidelity/crime for commercial and public entity risks; jewelers block for wholesale, retail, manufacturing and mining risks; cash-in-transit carriers and certain inland marine risks. Package coverages include property, general liability, umbrella and workers' compensation. Berkley Aviation offers a wide range of aviation insurance products, including coverage for airlines, helicopters, miscellaneous general aviation operations, non-owned aircraft, fixed-base operations, control towers, airports and other specialized niche programs. It places its business on an admitted and non-admitted basis nationwide. Berkley Custom Insurance focuses on the excess casualty insurance market and offers umbrella liability, pollution liability, excess liability, construction wrap-ups and completed operations coverages to wholesalers, retailers, manufacturers, insurance companies, financial institutions and construction companies. 2 Berkley Design Professional specializes in professional liability insurance products and services for the design professional industry including architects, engineers and consultants. Berkley FinSecure serves the insurance needs of financial institutions, credit unions, mortgage lenders, mortgage servicers and trust managers. It offers a comprehensive range of property, casualty, professional liability, and specialty lines insurance products and loss control services, including financial institution-specific commercial package policies, workers' compensation, umbrella, commercial auto, management liability coverages, and financial institution bonds. Berkley Life Sciences offers a comprehensive spectrum of property casualty products to the life sciences industry on a global basis, including primary and excess liability coverage and commercial insurance. It serves pharmaceutical and biologic/biotech companies, medical device companies, dietary supplement manufacturers, medical and research software developers, contract service organizations, research institutions and organizations, and other related businesses. Berkley Medical Excess insures healthcare organizations such as hospitals and clinics that retain a portion of their risk exposure through a self-funded mechanism and seek to maximize the effectiveness and efficiency of their excess risk financing program. Berkley Mid-Atlantic Group provides commercial property casualty coverages to a wide variety of businesses in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Virginia. Focusing on middle market accounts, it complements its standard writings with specialized products in areas such as social services, nonprofit organizations and inland marine. Berkley Net Underwriters focuses on niche insurance products for small and medium-sized commercial risks, using a web-based system to allow producers to quote, bind and service workers' compensation insurance products on behalf of W. R. Berkley Corporation member companies. Berkley North Pacific provides local underwriting, claims and risk management services from its home office in Seattle, Washington and branch offices in Boise, Idaho, Spokane, Washington and Salt Lake City, Utah. It operates with a select group of agents in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana and Utah to sell and service property and casualty policies for larger middle-market standard businesses and the specialty lines of agribusiness, motor carrier, petroleum distribution and construction. Berkley Offshore Underwriting Managers is a specialist global underwriter of energy and marine risks. Its three divisions provide specialty insurance products in the energy upstream, energy liability and marine sectors. Berkley Oil & Gas provides property casualty products and risk services to the United States energy sector. Its customer base includes risks of any size that work in the oil patch, including operators, drillers, geophysical contractors, well-servicing contractors, and manufacturers/distributors of oil field products. Berkley Professional Liability specializes in professional liability insurance for publicly-traded and private entities based in the United States and Canada. Its liability coverages include directors and officers, fiduciary, employment practices, and sponsored insurance agents. Berkley Program Specialists is a program management company offering both admitted and non-admitted insurance support on a nationwide basis for commercial casualty and inland marine program administrators with specialized insurance expertise. Its book is built around blocks of homogeneous business, or programs, allowing for efficient processes, effective oversight of existing programs and sound implementation of new programs. Berkley Public Entity specializes in public entities and intergovernmental pools or trusts. Products include general liability, auto, property employment practices, incidental medical, miscellaneous professionals, crime and liability for law enforcement, public officials and educators. Berkley Regional Specialty provides excess and surplus lines coverage on a national basis to small to medium-sized insureds with low to moderate insurance risk. Its product lines include general liability, liquor liability and some property and inland marine coverage. It serves a limited distribution channel consisting of select W. R. Berkley Corporation member company agents. Berkley Risk Administrators provides insurance program management services to a variety of organizations, including self-insureds, captives, governmental entities, risk retention groups, and insurance companies. It is also a nationwide third-party claims administrator and is the nation's third largest servicing carrier for workers' compensation assigned risk plans, serving plans in 20 states. Berkley Select specializes in underwriting professional liability insurance with a particular emphasis on large law firms, accounting firms and medical institution facilities. Its products are distributed nationwide through a limited number of brokers. Berkley Specialty Underwriting Managers has two underwriting divisions. Its entertainment and sports division underwrites property casualty insurance products, both on an admitted and non-admitted basis, for the entertainment industry 3 and sports-related organizations. The environmental division underwrites specialty insurance products for environmental customers such as contractors, consultants and owners of sites and facilities. Berkley Southeast offers a wide array of commercial lines products in six southeastern states: Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, North Carolina and South Carolina. Berkley Surety provides a broad array of surety products for contract and commercial surety risks, including specialty niches such as environmental and secured credit for small contractors, through an independent agency and broker platform across a nationwide network of 16 field offices. Berkley Technology Underwriters provides a broad range of first and third-party insurance programs for technology exposures and technology industries on both a local and global basis. Carolina Casualty Insurance provides commercial insurance products and services to the transportation industry with an emphasis on intermediate and long-haul trucking and various classes of business and public automobile coverage. It underwrites on an admitted basis in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Clermont Specialty Managers is a provider of package insurance programs for high-end cooperative, condominium, and quality rental apartment buildings and upscale restaurants in the New York, New Jersey and Chicago metropolitan markets. Continental Western Group is a Midwest regional property and casualty insurance operation based in Des Moines, Iowa, providing underwriting and risk management services to a broad array of regional businesses in thirteen Midwest states. In addition to its generalist portfolio, Continental Western offers specialty underwriting solutions for diversified agriculture, construction, light manufacturing, transportation, volunteer fire departments, rural utilities, collector cars, public entity and implement dealers. Through its division, Berkley Agribusiness Risk Specialists, the company offers insurance for larger commercial risks across the United States for clients involved in the supply, storage, handling, processing and distribution of commodities related to the agriculture and food industries. Gemini Transportation is a national provider of excess liability insurance for various domestic surface transportation industry businesses. It underwrites liability insurance policies for the railroad industry as well as excess liability policies for the trucking, busing and other industries that use rubber-wheeled vehicles for over-the-road use. Key Risk Insurance is a provider of workers' compensation insurance products and services for employers in the public and private sectors throughout the Eastern United States. It focuses on middle-market accounts in specialty niches and on larger self-insured entities, with a special emphasis on expert claims and managed-care services. Additionally, Key Risk's affiliate, Key Risk Management Services, provides third party administration of self-insured workers' compensation programs. Midwest Employers Casualty provides excess workers' compensation insurance products to individual employers, groups and workers' compensation insurance companies across the United States. Its workers' compensation excess of loss products include self-insured excess of loss coverages, large deductible policies and reinsurance. Through its relationship with Berkley Net Underwriters, Midwest Employers Casualty also offers multi-state coverage for group self-insureds. It has developed sophisticated, proprietary analytical tools and risk management services that help its insureds lower their total cost of risk. Monitor Liability Managers provides executive and professional liability insurance to small to middle-market risks on a nationwide basis. Its primary professional liability products are management liability, employment practices and fiduciary coverages for private companies and nonprofit organizations, and errors and omissions policies for accounting and law firms. Nautilus Insurance Group insures excess and surplus lines risks for small to medium-sized commercial risks with low to moderate susceptibility to loss. It writes commercial excess and surplus lines business nationwide and admitted lines commercial business in a limited number of states. A substantial portion of Nautilus' business is written through its close, long-standing network of general agents, who are chosen on a highly selective basis. Preferred Employers Insurance focuses exclusively on workers' compensation products and services for businesses in California. It serves over 12,000 customers covering a broad spectrum of industries throughout the state. Regional Excess Underwriters is a full service excess and surplus lines brokerage and general agent offering commercial coverages to agents contracted with W. R. Berkley Corporation member companies and select other agents and brokers throughout the continental United States. Surplus lines risks are placed either within the W. R. Berkley group of insurance companies, or by drawing upon the resources of other non-admitted insurance carriers. Riverport Insurance Services provides property casualty insurance coverages to human services organizations, including nonprofit and for-profit organizations, public entities, sports and recreational organizations, and self-insured companies, associations and purchasing groups. Its product offerings include traditional primary coverages, as well as alternative market solutions for clients who wish to retain a larger share of their own risk. 4 Union Standard offers preferred commercial property and casualty insurance products and services to a wide range of small to medium size commercial entities through independent agents in Arizona, Arkansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas. Union Standard's strategy is built around relationships and service. In 2013, it formed Berkley Fire & Marine as a division to offer a wider range of inland marine products nationwide to customers of the regional operating units. Vela Insurance Services specializes in commercial casualty insurance on an excess and surplus lines basis. Its primary focus is on general liability insurance for construction, manufacturing and general casualty clients as well as products liability and miscellaneous professional liability coverages distributed through wholesale insurance brokers. Verus Underwriting Managers offers general liability, professional liability and property coverages for small to mid-sized commercial risks in the excess and surplus lines insurance market through a select group of appointed wholesale brokers and agents. 5 The following table sets forth the percentage of gross premiums written by each Insurance-Domestic operating unit: 6 The following table sets forth percentages of gross premiums written, by line, by our Insurance-Domestic operations: Insurance-International Through our Insurance-International operating units, we write business in almost 40 countries worldwide, with branches or offices in 15 locations outside the United States, including the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, South America, Canada, Scandinavia, and Australia. In each of our operating territories, we have built decentralized structures that allow products and services to be tailored to each regional customer base. Our businesses are managed by teams of professionals with expertise in local markets and knowledge of regional environments. Berkley Canada underwrites specialty, casualty and surety lines of business on behalf of the Canadian branch of Berkley Insurance Company. It specializes in commercial casualty and professional liability, and offers a broad portfolio of risk products that include commercial general liability, umbrella, professional liability, directors' and officers', commercial property and surety, in addition to niche products for specific industries such as technology and life sciences. Berkley Latinoamérica is a leading provider of property, casualty, automobile, surety, group life and health and workers' compensation products and services in its operating territories of Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay. Its largest operation, Berkley International Seguros, offers a wide range of property casualty products in Argentina, where it is a leading provider of surety, engineering, cargo and personal accident coverages. Berkley International ART, Berkley Latinoamérica's workers' compensation carrier in Argentina, is focused on small to medium-sized risks in its operating territories. Berkley International Seguros do Brasil provides surety products to small and medium-sized risks throughout Brazil, and Berkley International Seguros (Uruguay) is a provider of customized property casualty insurance products and services to small and medium-sized businesses in Uruguay. W. R. Berkley Insurance (Europe) is based in the United Kingdom, with branches in Spain, Australia, Ireland, Norway, Sweden and Germany. Its product offering includes professional indemnity, directors' and officers' liability, medical malpractice, general liability, personal accident and travel, engineering and construction. It also offers expertise in marine, cargo, and commercial property and casualty packages. W. R. Berkley Syndicate 1967 at Lloyd's focuses on lines of business more global in nature and where access to the Lloyd's distribution platform allows us to further expand our international reach. It works actively with select W. R. Berkley Corporation member companies to access business for which the Lloyd's platform is best suited. Syndicate 1967's book of business includes accident and commercial property and a specialized book of marine business. The following table sets forth the percentages of gross premiums written by our Insurance-International operating units: 7 The following table sets forth percentages of gross premiums written, by line, by our Insurance-International operations: Reinsurance-Global We provide other insurance companies and self-insureds with assistance in managing their net risk through reinsurance on either a portfolio basis, through treaty reinsurance, or on an individual basis, through facultative reinsurance. Berkley Re America is a specialty treaty reinsurance underwriter with an emphasis on providing solutions for insurance companies, or units within insurance companies, that have a successful business model built upon specialization in the products they underwrite. Its lines of business include general and products liability, environmental liability, professional liability, medical malpractice, automobile, umbrella and excess liability, workers' compensation, and property. Berkley Re Asia Pacific , which comprises the Australian, Hong Kong and Singapore branches of Berkley Insurance Company, provides property and casualty reinsurance to the Asia Pacific marketplace. With offices in Brisbane, Sydney, Hong Kong and Singapore, each branch focuses on excess of loss reinsurance, targeting both property and casualty treaty and facultative contracts, through multiple distribution channels. Berkley Re Direct is a direct casualty facultative reinsurance underwriter serving clients through a nationwide network of regional offices. Its facultative reinsurance products include automatic, semi-automatic and individual risk assumed reinsurance. Berkley Re Direct also provides its customers value-added services across its lines, including underwriting, claims and actuarial consultation. Berkley Re UK writes international property casualty treaty accounts. Its territorial scope includes reinsured clients domiciled in the United Kingdom, Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Caribbean. Facultative ReSources is a broker market casualty, professional liability and property facultative underwriter based in Stamford, Connecticut with branch offices in Chicago, Atlanta and Los Angeles. It provides expertise across many lines of facultative business, and has recently broadened its expertise in a number of specialized areas, including professional liability and property hazards in emerging technologies. Lloyd's Reinsurance represents the Company's minority participation in a Lloyd's syndicate that writes a broad range of mainly short-tail classes of business. The following table sets forth the percentages of gross premiums written by each Reinsurance-Global operating unit: 8 The following table sets forth the percentages of gross premiums written, by property versus casualty business, by our Reinsurance-Global operations: Results by Industry Segment Summary financial information about our segments is presented on a GAAP basis in the following table: _______________________________________ 9 The table below represents summary underwriting ratios on a GAAP basis for our segments. Loss ratio is losses and loss expenses incurred expressed as a percentage of net premiums earned. Expense ratio is underwriting expenses expressed as a percentage of net premiums earned. Underwriting expenses do not include expenses related to insurance services or unallocated corporate expenses. Combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. The combined ratio represents a measure of underwriting profitability, excluding investment income. A number in excess of 100 indicates an underwriting loss; a number below 100 indicates an underwriting profit: Investments Investment results, before income taxes, were as follows: _______________________________________ For comparison, the following are the coupon returns for the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index and the dividend returns for the S&P 500 ® Index: 10 The percentages of the fixed maturity portfolio categorized by contractual maturity, based on fair value, on the dates indicated, are set forth below. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because certain issuers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations. At December 31, 2013, the fixed maturity portfolio had an average duration of 3.3 years. Loss and Loss Adjustment Expense Reserves To recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, either known or unknown, insurers establish reserves, which is a balance sheet account representing estimates of future amounts needed to pay claims and related expenses with respect to insured events which have occurred. Estimates and assumptions relating to reserves for losses and loss expenses are based on complex and subjective judgments, often including the interplay of specific uncertainties with related accounting and actuarial measurements. Such estimates are also susceptible to change as significant periods of time may elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the report of the loss to the insurer, the ultimate determination of the cost of the loss and the insurer’s payment of that loss. In general, when a claim is reported, claims personnel establish a “case reserve” for the estimated amount of the ultimate payment based upon known information about the claim at that time. The estimate represents an informed judgment based on general reserving practices and reflects the experience and knowledge of the claims personnel regarding the nature and value of the specific type of claim. Reserves are also established on an aggregate basis to provide for losses incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) to the insurer, potential inadequacy of case reserves and the estimated expenses of settling claims, including legal and other fees and general expenses of administrating the claims adjustment process. Reserves are established based upon the then current legal interpretation of coverage provided. In examining reserve adequacy, several factors are considered in estimating the ultimate economic value of losses. These factors include, among others, historical data, legal developments, changes in social attitudes and economic conditions, including the effects of inflation. The actuarial process relies on the basic assumption that past experience, adjusted judgmentally for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future outcomes. Reserve amounts are necessarily based on management’s informed estimates and judgments using currently available data. As additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, these estimates and judgments may be revised. This may result in reserve increases or decreases that would be reflected in our results in periods in which such estimates and assumptions are changed. The risk and complexity of estimating loss reserves are greater when economic conditions are uncertain. It is especially difficult to estimate the impact of inflation on loss reserves given the current economic environment and related government actions. Whereas a slowing economy would generally lead to lower inflation or even deflation, increased government spending would generally lead to higher inflation. A change in our assumptions regarding inflation would result in reserve increases or decreases that would be reflected in our earnings in periods in which such assumptions are changed. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what management expects the ultimate settlement and claim administration will cost. While the methods for establishing the reserves are well tested over time, some of the major assumptions about anticipated loss emergence patterns are subject to unanticipated fluctuation. These estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, are based on management’s assessment of facts and circumstances then known, as well as estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors, including the actions of third parties, which are beyond the Company’s control. These variables are affected by external and internal events, such as inflation and economic volatility, judicial and litigation trends, reinsurance coverage, legislative changes and claim handling and reserving practices, which make it more difficult to accurately predict claim costs. The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of liabilities where long periods of time elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made. Although the loss reserves included in the Company’s financial statements represent management’s best estimates, setting reserves is inherently uncertain and the Company cannot provide assurance that its current reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent events. 11 We discount our liabilities for excess workers’ compensation business and the workers’ compensation portion of our reinsurance business because of the long period of time over which losses are paid. Discounting is intended to appropriately match losses and loss expenses to income earned on investment securities supporting the liabilities. The expected losses and loss expense payout pattern subject to discounting was derived from the Company’s loss payout experience. For non-proportional business, reserves for losses and loss expenses have been discounted using risk-free discount rates determined by reference to the U.S. Treasury yield curve. At December 31, 2013, the discount rates by year ranged from 2.1% to 6.5% with a weighted average discount rate of 4.1% . For proportional business, reserves for losses and loss expenses have been discounted at the statutory rate permitted by the Department of Insurance of the State of Delaware of 2.2% . The aggregate net discount, after reflecting the effects of ceded reinsurance, is $837 million , $867 million and $892 million at December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011, respectively. To date, known asbestos and environmental claims at our insurance company subsidiaries have not had a material impact on our operations. These claims have not materially impacted us because these subsidiaries generally did not insure the larger industrial companies which were subject to significant asbestos or environmental exposures prior to 1986 when an absolute pollution exclusion was incorporated into standard policy language. Our net reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses relating to asbestos and environmental claims were $36 million and $34 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Company’s gross reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses relating to asbestos and environmental claims were $59 million and $56 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Net incurred losses and loss expenses for reported asbestos and environmental claims increased by approximately $5 million , $2 million and $1 million in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Net paid losses and loss expenses for reported asbestos and environmental claims were approximately $3 million, $2 million and $3 million in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The estimation of these liabilities is subject to significantly greater than normal variation and uncertainty because it is difficult to make a reasonable actuarial estimate of these liabilities due to the absence of a generally accepted actuarial methodology for these exposures and the potential effect of significant unresolved legal matters, including coverage issues as well as the cost of litigating the legal issues. Additionally, the determination of ultimate damages and the final allocation of such damages to financially responsible parties are highly uncertain. 12 The table below provides a reconciliation of the beginning of year and end of year property casualty reserves for the indicated years: ____________________________________ Also, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further information regarding the decrease in estimates for claims occurring in prior years. A reconciliation between the reserves as of December 31, 2013 as reported in the accompanying consolidated GAAP financial statements and those reported on the basis of statutory accounting principles (“SAP”) in the Company’s U.S. regulatory filings is as follows: (1) For statutory purposes, the Company discounts its workers’ compensation reinsurance reserves at 2.2% as permitted by the Department of Insurance of the State of Delaware. In its GAAP financial statements, the Company discounts excess workers’ compensation reserves at the risk-free rate and assumed workers’ compensation reserves at the statutory rate. 13 The following table presents the development of net reserves for 2003 through 2013. The top line of the table shows the estimated reserves for unpaid losses and loss expenses recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated years. This represents the estimated amount of losses and loss expenses for claims arising in all prior years that are unpaid at the balance sheet date, including losses that had been incurred but not reported to us. The upper portion of the table shows the re-estimated amount of the previously recorded reserves based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The estimate changes as more information becomes known about the frequency and severity of claims for individual years. The “cumulative redundancy” represents the aggregate change in the estimates over all prior years. The impact on the results of operations of the past three years of changes in reserve estimates is shown in the reconciliation tables above. It should be noted that the table presents a “run off” of balance sheet reserves, rather than accident or policy year loss development. Therefore, each amount in the table includes the effects of changes in reserves for all prior years. For example, assume a claim that occurred in 2003 is reserved for $2,000 as of December 31, 2003. Assuming this claim estimate was changed in 2013 to $2,300, and was settled for $2,300 in 2013, the $300 deficiency would appear as a deficiency in each year from 2003 through 2013. For certain retrospectively rated insurance polices and reinsurance agreements, changes in loss and loss adjustment expenses for prior years are offset by additional or return premiums. Such premiums are not reflected in the above table. 14 The following table presents the development of gross reserves for 2003 through 2013. For certain retrospectively rated insurance polices and reinsurance agreements, changes in loss and loss adjustment expenses for prior years are offset by additional or return premiums. Such premiums are not reflected in the above table. Reinsurance We follow a common industry practice of reinsuring a portion of our exposures and paying to reinsurers a portion of the premiums received on the policies that we write. Reinsurance is purchased principally to reduce net liability on individual risks and to protect against catastrophic losses. Although reinsurance does not legally discharge an insurer from its primary liability for the full amount of the policies, it does make the assuming reinsurer contractually liable to the insurer to the extent of the reinsurance coverage. We monitor the financial condition of our reinsurers and attempt to place our coverages only with substantial, financially sound carriers. As a result, generally the reinsurers who reinsure our casualty insurance must have an A.M. Best rating of “A (Excellent)” or better with at least $500 million in policyholder surplus and the reinsurers who cover our property insurance must have an A.M. Best rating of “A- (Excellent)” or better with at least $250 million in policyholder surplus. Regulation U.S. Regulation Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they do business. Overview . Our domestic insurance subsidiaries are subject to statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance commissioners. This regulation relates to such matters as the standards of solvency which must be met and maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on investments; deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; approval of certain policy forms and premium rates; periodic examination of the affairs of insurance companies; annual and other reports required to be filed on the financial condition of insurers or for other purposes; establishment and maintenance of reserves for unearned premiums, loss expenses and losses; and requirements regarding numerous other matters. Our property casualty subsidiaries, other than excess and surplus and reinsurance subsidiaries, must generally file all rates with the insurance department of each state in which they operate. Our excess and surplus and reinsurance subsidiaries generally operate free of rate and form regulation. 15 Holding Company Statutes . In addition to regulatory supervision of our insurance subsidiaries, we are subject to state statutes governing insurance holding company systems. Typically, such statutes require that we periodically file information with the appropriate state insurance commissioner, including information concerning our capital structure, ownership, financial condition and general business operations. Under the terms of applicable state statutes, any person or entity desiring to purchase more than a specified percentage (commonly 10%) of our outstanding voting securities would be required to obtain prior regulatory approval of the purchase. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) adopted amendments to the model holding company law in 2010, expanding upon the regulation of holding company systems. The amendments include increased group-level reporting requirements, submission of an annual enterprise risk report by a regulated insurance company's ultimate controlling person and increased information made accessible to regulators regarding an insurer's non-insurer's affiliates. These NAIC amendments must be adopted by the individual state legislatures and insurance regulators in order to be effective. To date, 24 states have adopted the amendments, and in order to maintain compliance with NAIC standards, the remaining states must adopt them in whole or substantial part by January 2016. Additionally, the NAIC recently adopted the Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act (the “ORSA Model Act”). The ORSA Model Act will require an insurance holding company system’s chief risk officer to submit annually to its lead state insurance regulator an Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Summary Report (“ORSA”). The ORSA is a confidential internal assessment of the material and relevant risks associated with an insurer’s current business plan and the sufficiency of capital resources to support those risks. The ORSA Model Act must be adopted by the individual state legislature and insurance regulators in order to be effective. It is expected that the ORSA Model Act’s requirements generally will become effective in the states on January 1, 2015. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that these amendments and compliance with the ORSA Model Act will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risk Based Capital Requirements . The NAIC utilizes a Risk Based Capital (“RBC”) formula that is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer's statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business. The RBC formula develops a risk adjusted target level of adjusted statutory capital by applying certain factors to various asset, premium and reserve items. The NAIC RBC Model Law provides for four incremental levels of regulatory attention for insurers whose surplus is below the calculated RBC target. These levels of attention range in severity from requiring the insurer to submit a plan for corrective action to actually placing the insurer under regulatory control. The RBC of each of our domestic insurance subsidiaries was above any RBC action level as of December 31, 2013. Insurance Regulatory Information System . The NAIC also has developed a set of 13 financial ratios referred to as the Insurance Regulatory Information System (“IRIS”). On the basis of statutory financial statements filed with state insurance regulators, the NAIC annually calculates these IRIS ratios to assist state insurance regulators in monitoring the financial condition of insurance companies. The NAIC has established an acceptable range for each of the IRIS financial ratios. Guaranty Funds . Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessment by state guaranty funds when an insurer in a particular jurisdiction has been judicially declared insolvent and insufficient funds are available from the liquidated company to pay policyholders and claimants. The protection afforded under a state's guaranty fund to policyholders of the insolvent insurer varies from state to state. Generally, all licensed property casualty insurers are considered to be members of the fund, and assessments are based upon their pro rata share of direct written premiums. The NAIC Model Post-Assessment Guaranty Fund Act, which many states have adopted, limits assessments to an insurer to 2% of its subject premium and permits recoupment of assessments through rate setting. Likewise, several states (or underwriting organizations of which our insurance subsidiaries are required to be members) have limited assessment authority with regard to deficits in certain lines of business. Additionally, state insurance laws and regulations require us to participate in mandatory property-liability “shared market,” “pooling” or similar arrangements that provide certain types of insurance coverage to individuals or others who otherwise are unable to purchase coverage voluntarily provided by private insurers. Shared market mechanisms include assigned risk plans and fair access to insurance requirement or “FAIR” plans. In addition, some states require insurers to participate in reinsurance pools for claims that exceed specified amounts. Our participation in these mandatory shared market or pooling mechanisms generally is related to the amount of our direct writings for the type of coverage written by the specific arrangement in the applicable state. Excess and Surplus Lines . The regulation of our U.S. subsidiaries' excess and surplus lines insurance business differs significantly from the regulation of our admitted business. Our surplus lines subsidiaries are subject to the surplus lines regulation and reporting requirements of the jurisdictions in which they are eligible to write surplus lines insurance. Although the surplus lines business is generally less regulated than admitted business, strict regulations apply to surplus lines placements in the laws of every state and the regulation of surplus lines insurance may undergo changes in the future. Federal or state measures may be introduced to increase the oversight of surplus lines insurance in the future. 16 Dividends . We receive funds from our insurance company subsidiaries in the form of dividends and management fees for certain management services. Annual dividends in excess of maximum amounts prescribed by state statutes may not be paid without the approval of the insurance commissioner of the state in which an insurance subsidiary is domiciled. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Trade Practices . State insurance laws and regulations include numerous provisions governing trade practices and the marketplace activities of insurers, including provisions governing marketing and sales practices, policyholder services, claims management and complaint handling. State regulatory authorities generally enforce these provisions through periodic market conduct examinations. Investment Regulation. Investments by our domestic insurance companies must comply with applicable laws and regulations which prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments. In general, these laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage loans, real estate and certain other investments, subject to specified limits and certain other qualifications. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (as amended, “TRIA”), established a Federal program that provides for a system of shared public and private compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism. The program is effective through December 31, 2014. We cannot be certain that TRIA will be extended past such expiration date. TRIA is applicable to almost all commercial lines of property and casualty insurance but excludes commercial auto, burglary and theft, surety, professional liability and farm owners' multi-peril insurance. Insurers with direct commercial property and casualty insurance exposure in the United States are required to participate in the program and make available coverage for certified acts of terrorism. The most recent amendment to TRIA broadened the definition of certified acts to include domestic terrorism. Federal participation will be triggered under TRIA when the Secretary of Treasury certifies an act of terrorism. Under the program, the federal government will pay 85% of an insurer's covered losses in excess of the insurer's applicable deductible. The insurer's deductible is based on 20% percent of earned premium for the prior year for covered lines of commercial property and casualty insurance. Based on our 2013 earned premiums, our deductible under TRIA during 2014 will be approximately $698 million. The federal program will not pay losses for certified acts unless such losses exceed $100 million. TRIA limits the federal government's share of losses at $100 billion for a program year. In addition, an insurer that has satisfied its deductible is not liable for the payment of losses in excess of the $100 billion cap. Federal Regulation. Although the federal government and its regulatory agencies generally do not directly regulate the business of insurance, federal initiatives could have an impact on our business in a variety of ways. In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which effected sweeping changes to financial services regulation in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act created two new federal government bodies, the Federal Insurance Office (the “FIO”) and the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “FSOC”), which may impact the regulation of insurance. Although the FIO has preemption authority over state insurance laws that conflict with certain international agreements, it does not have general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance. The FIO has authority to represent the United States in international insurance matters and is authorized to monitor the U.S. insurance industry and identify potential regulatory gaps that could contribute to systemic risk. On December 12, 2013, the FIO delivered a report to Congress on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the U.S. The report recommended that, in the short term, the U.S. system of insurance regulation can be modernized through state-based improvements combined with certain federal actions. The report identified areas for direct federal involvement in international standard setting, the FIO participation in supervisory colleges which monitor the regulation of large national and internationally active insurance groups and federal pursuit of international covered agreements to afford nationally uniform treatment of reinsurance collateral requirements. The report also made several recommendations for state reform of insurance regulation including changes to the state regulation of insurance company solvency, group supervision and corporate governance. The FIO report stated that the system of U.S. insurance regulation can be modernized and improved in the short-term, while warning that if the states do not act in the near term to effectively regulate matters on a consistent and cooperative basis, in the FIO’s view there will be a greater role for federal regulation of insurance. The FIO also can recommend to the FSOC that it designate an insurer as an entity posing risks to the United States financial stability in the event of the insurer's material financial distress or failure. An insurer so designated by FSOC could be subject to Federal Reserve supervision and heightened prudential standards. Based upon our current business model and balance sheet, we do not believe that we will be designated by the FSOC as such an institution. Although the potential impacts of the Dodd-Frank Act on the U. S. insurance industry is not clear, our business could be affected by changes to the U.S. system of insurance regulation or our designation or the designation of insurers or reinsurers with which we do business as systemically significant non-bank financial companies. In April 2013, a federal savings association that was indirectly owned by the Company sold substantially all of its assets, and the Company deregistered as a savings and loan holding company. 17 International Regulation Our insurance subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom are regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority ("PRA") and the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA"). The PRA's primary objective is to promote the safety and soundness of insurers for the protection of policyholders, while the FCA has three operational objectives: (i) to secure an appropriate degree of protection for consumers, (ii) to protect and enhance the integrity of the United Kingdom financial system, and (iii) to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers. The PRA and FCA oversee compliance with established periodic auditing and reporting requirements, risk assessment reviews, minimum solvency margins and individual capital assessment requirements, dividend restrictions, restrictions governing the appointment of key officers, restrictions governing controlling ownership interests and various other requirements. Our Lloyd's syndicate and managing agency are also regulated by the PRA, FCA and Lloyd's. Through Lloyd's, we are licensed to write business in various countries throughout the world by virtue of Lloyd's international licenses. In each such country, we are subject to the laws and insurance regulation of that country. Additionally, PRA and FCA regulations also impact us as “controller” (a PRA/FCA defined term) of our U.K.-regulated subsidiaries, whereby we are required to notify the PRA/FCA about significant events relating to their controllers (i.e. persons or entities which have certain levels of influence over the regulated entities) as well as changes of control, and to submit an annual report regarding their controllers. Through the PRA/FCA's Approved Persons regime, certain employees and directors are subject to regulation by the PRA and FCA as to their fitness. In addition, certain employees are individually registered at Lloyd's. In the European Union, a new insurance regulatory regime governing, among other things, capital adequacy and risk management called “Solvency II” is scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2016. In anticipation of the implementation of Solvency II, Lloyd’s applies a capital adequacy test to all Lloyd’s syndicates, including our syndicate, that is based on Solvency II principles. Solvency II provides for the supervision of group solvency. Under Solvency II, it is possible that the U.S. parent of a European Union subsidiary could be subject to certain Solvency II requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary's capital position is dependent on the parent company and the U.S. company is not already subject to regulations deemed “equivalent” to Solvency II. While it is not certain how or if these actions will impact us, we do not currently expect the capital management strategies for our U.S. and international companies will be materially impacted. Our international underwriting subsidiaries are also subject to varying degrees of regulation in certain countries in Scandinavia, Continental Europe, South America, Australia, Southeast Asia and Canada. Generally, our subsidiaries must satisfy local regulatory requirements. While each country imposes licensing, solvency, auditing and financial reporting requirements, the type and extent of the requirements differ substantially. Key areas where country regulations may differ include: (i) the type of financial reports to be filed; (ii) a requirement to use local intermediaries; (iii) the amount of reinsurance permissible; (iv) the scope of any regulation of policy forms and rates; and (v) the type and frequency of regulatory examinations. Competition The property casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses are highly competitive, with many insurance companies of various sizes, as well as other entities offering risk alternatives such as self-insured retentions or captive programs, transacting business in the United States and internationally. We compete directly with a large number of these companies. Competition in our industry is largely measured by the ability to provide insurance and services at a price and on terms that are reasonable and acceptable to the customer. Our strategy in this highly fragmented industry is to seek specialized areas or geographic regions where our insurance subsidiaries can gain a competitive advantage by responding quickly to changing market conditions. Our subsidiaries establish their own pricing practices based upon a Company-wide philosophy to price products with the intent of making an underwriting profit. As a result of increased competition, from 2005 to 2010 we generally experienced both downward pressure on pricing for many of our insurance lines as well as demands by insureds and cedants for better terms and conditions. Although insurance rates increased commencing in 2011, certain products continued to experience strong competition. Competition for Insurance-Domestic business comes from other specialty insurers, regional carriers, large national multi-line companies and reinsurers. Our specialty operating units compete with excess and surplus insurers as well as standard carriers. Other regional units compete with mutual and other regional stock companies as well as national carriers. Additionally, direct writers of property casualty insurance compete with our regional units by writing insurance through their salaried employees, generally at a lower acquisition cost than through independent agents such as those used by the Company. Our Insurance-International operations compete with native insurance operations both large and small, which in some cases are related to government entities, as well as with branches or local subsidiaries of multinational companies. Competition for the Reinsurance-Global business comes from domestic and foreign reinsurers, which produce their business either on a direct basis or through the broker market. These competitors include Swiss Re, Munich Re, Berkshire Hathaway, Transatlantic Reinsurance, Partner Re and others. In recent years, various institutional investors have increasingly sought to participate in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries. Well-capitalized new entrants to the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries, or 18 existing competitors that receive substantial infusions of capital, provide increasing competition, which may adversely impact our business and profitability. Further, an expanded supply of reinsurance capital may lower costs for insurers that rely on reinsurance and, as a consequence, those insurers may be able to price their products more competitively. Additionally, competition from insurers and reinsurers based in Bermuda and other tax-advantaged jurisdictions continues to increase, including from domestic based subsidiaries of foreign-based entities in the excess and surplus lines businesses. Employees As of January 31, 2014, we employed 7,247 individuals. Of this number, our subsidiaries employed 7,126 persons and the remaining persons were employed at the parent company. Other Information about the Company's Business We maintain an interest in the acquisition and startup of complementary businesses and continue to evaluate possible acquisitions and new ventures on an ongoing basis. In addition, our insurance subsidiaries develop new coverages or lines of business to meet the needs of insureds. Seasonal weather variations and other events affect the severity and frequency of losses sustained by the insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. Although the effect on our business of catastrophes such as tornadoes, hurricanes, hailstorms, earthquakes and terrorist acts may be mitigated by reinsurance, they nevertheless can have a significant impact on the results of any one or more reporting periods. We have no customer which accounts for 10 percent or more of our consolidated revenues. Compliance by W. R. Berkley and its subsidiaries with federal, state and local provisions that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to protection of the environment, has not had a material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. The Company's internet address is www.wrberkley.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. The Company's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act are accessible free of charge through this website as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our businesses face significant risks. If any of the events or circumstances described as risks below occur, our businesses, results of operations and/or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition to those described below, our businesses may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance and reinsurance industry. The results of companies in the property casualty insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties in demand and pricing, causing cyclical changes in the insurance and reinsurance industry. The demand for insurance is influenced primarily by general economic conditions, while the supply of insurance is often directly related to available capacity or the perceived profitability of the business. Although the insurance markets have recently hardened somewhat, we have faced in recent years increased competition in our business, as a result of new entrants and existing insurers seeking to gain market share, resulting in decreased premium rates and less favorable contract terms and conditions for certain lines of business. The adequacy of premium rates is affected mainly by the severity and frequency of claims, which are influenced by many factors, including natural disasters, regulatory measures and court decisions that define and expand the extent of coverage and the effects of economic inflation on the amount of compensation due for injuries or losses. In addition, investment rates of return have impacted rate adequacy, with interest rates remaining at historic lows. These factors can have a significant impact on ultimate profitability because a property casualty insurance policy is priced before its costs are known as premiums usually are determined long before claims are reported. These factors could produce results that would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We face significant competitive pressures in our businesses, which have reduced premium rates in certain areas and could harm our ability to maintain or increase our profitability and premium volume. 19 We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. We compete, and will continue to compete, with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and reinsurers, other regional companies, as well as mutual companies, specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies and diversified financial services companies. Competitiveness in our businesses is based on many factors, including premium charges, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, commissions paid to producers, the perceived financial strength of the company, other terms and conditions offered, services provided (including ease of doing business over the internet), speed of claims payment and reputation and experience in the lines to be written. Some of our competitors, particularly in the Reinsurance-Global business, have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. These competitors within the reinsurance segment include Swiss Re, Munich Re, Berkshire Hathaway, Transatlantic Reinsurance, and Partner Re. We expect that perceived financial strength, in particular, will become more important as customers seek high quality reinsurers. Certain of our competitors operate from Bermuda or other tax advantaged or less regulated jurisdictions that may provide them with additional competitive and pricing advantages. Over the past several years, we have faced increased competition in our business, particularly in our Insurance-Domestic and Reinsurance-Global segments, as increased supply has led to reduced prices and, at times, less favorable terms and conditions. Our specialty operating units have also encountered competition from admitted companies seeking to increase market share. From 2005 through 2010, the property casualty insurance market was very competitive and insurance rates decreased across most business lines. Although prices have generally increased since the beginning of 2011, current market price levels for certain lines of business remain below the prices required for the Company to achieve its long-term return objectives. We expect to continue to face strong competition in these and our other lines of business and as a result could experience renewed pressure on pricing and policy terms and conditions. In recent years, various institutional investors have increasingly sought to participate in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries. Well-capitalized new entrants to the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries, or existing competitors that receive substantial infusions of capital, provide increasing competition, which may adversely impact our business and profitability. Further, an expanded supply of reinsurance capital may lower costs for insurers that rely on reinsurance and, as a consequence, those insurers may be able to price their products more competitively. This intense competition could cause the supply and/or demand for insurance or reinsurance to change, which could affect our ability to price our products at attractive rates and retain existing business or write new products at adequate rates or on terms and conditions acceptable to us. If we are unable to retain existing business or write new business at adequate rates or on terms and conditions acceptable to us, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, which may require us to establish additional reserves. Our gross reserves for losses and loss expenses were approximately $10.1 billion as of December 31, 2013. Our loss reserves reflect our best estimates of the cost of settling claims and related expenses with respect to insured events that have occurred. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what management expects the ultimate settlement and claims administration will cost for claims that have occurred, whether known or unknown. The major assumptions about anticipated loss emergence patterns are subject to unanticipated fluctuation. These estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, are based on management's assessment of facts and circumstances then known, as well as estimates of future trends in claims severity and frequency, inflation, judicial theories of liability, reinsurance coverage, legislative changes and other factors, including the actions of third parties, which are beyond our control. The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of liabilities, where long periods of time elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made and settlement is reached. In periods with increased economic volatility, it becomes more difficult to accurately predict claim costs. It is especially difficult to estimate the impact of inflation on loss reserves given the current economic environment and related government actions. Both inflation overall and medical cost inflation, which has historically been greater than inflation overall, can have an adverse impact. Reserve estimates are continually refined in an ongoing process as experience develops and further claims are reported and settled. Adjustments to reserves are reflected in the results of the periods in which such estimates are changed. Because setting reserves is inherently uncertain, we cannot assure that our current reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent events. Should we need to increase our reserves, our pre-tax income for the reporting period would decrease by a corresponding amount. We discount our reserves for excess and assumed workers' compensation business because of the long period of time over which losses are paid. Discounting is intended to appropriately match losses and loss expenses to income earned on investment securities supporting liabilities. The expected loss and loss expense payout pattern subject to discounting is derived from our loss payout experience. Changes in the loss and loss expense payout pattern are recorded in the period they are determined. If 20 the actual loss payout pattern is shorter than anticipated, the discount will be reduced and pre-tax income will decrease by a corresponding amount. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and economic, legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Examples of emerging claims and coverage issues include, but are not limited to: • judicial expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; • plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling and other practices; • medical developments that link health issues to particular causes, resulting in liability claims; • claims relating to unanticipated consequences of current or new technologies, including cyber security related risks; and • claims relating to potentially changing climate conditions. In some instances, these emerging issues may not become apparent for some time after we have issued the affected insurance policies. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance policies may not be known until many years after the policies are issued. In addition, the potential passage of new legislation designed to expand the right to sue, to remove limitations on recovery, to extend the statutes of limitations or otherwise to repeal or weaken tort reforms could have an adverse impact on our business. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are difficult to predict and could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. As a property casualty insurer, we face losses from natural and man-made catastrophes. Property casualty insurers are subject to claims arising out of catastrophes that may have a significant effect on their results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Catastrophe losses have had a significant impact on our results. For example, weather-related losses were $65 million in 2013, $80 million in 2012, $153 million in 2011, $81 million in 2010, and $63 million in 2009. Similarly, man-made catastrophes can also have a material impact on our financial results. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, tsunamis, hailstorms, explosions, severe winter weather and fires, as well as terrorist and other man-made activities, including drilling, mining and other industrial accidents or terrorist activities. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable but have increased in recent years. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Some catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and other disasters may produce significant damage in large, heavily populated areas. Catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of our property and casualty lines, and most of our past catastrophe-related claims have resulted from severe storms. Seasonal weather variations or the impact of climate change may affect the severity and frequency of our losses. Insurance companies are not permitted to reserve for a catastrophe until it has occurred. It is therefore possible that a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could produce significant losses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changing climate conditions may adversely affect our financial condition or profitability. There is an emerging scientific view that the earth is getting warmer. Climate change, to the extent it produces rising temperatures and changes in weather patterns, may affect the frequency and severity of storms and other weather events as well as the affordability, availability and underwriting results of commercial property insurance, and, if frequency and severity patterns increase, could negatively affect our financial results. Conditions in the financial markets and the global economy have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if such conditions continue. The significant volatility and uncertainty experienced in financial markets around the world during the past several years and the effect of the economic downturn have continued. Although the U.S. and various foreign governments have taken various actions to try to stabilize the financial markets, the ultimate effectiveness of such actions remains unclear. Therefore, volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets and the resulting negative economic impact may continue for some time. For example, financial markets have been affected by concerns over U.S. fiscal policy as well as the related concern regarding the 21 need to reduce the federal deficit. These issues, together with the slowing of the global economy generally, could send the U.S. into a new recession, further exacerbate concerns over sovereign debt of other countries and disrupt economic activity in the U.S. and elsewhere. Similarly, concerns about the solvency of certain European Union member states, and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by them, has created market volatility that continues to affect the performance of various asset classes, and likely will continue until there is an ultimate resolution of these sovereign debt related concerns. While we monitor conditions in the financial markets, we cannot predict future conditions or their impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Depending on conditions in the financial markets, we could incur additional realized and unrealized losses in our investment portfolio in future periods, and financial market volatility and uncertainty and an economic downturn could have a significant negative impact on third parties that we do business with, including insureds and reinsurers. We, as a primary insurer, may have significant exposure for terrorist acts. To the extent an act of terrorism, whether a domestic or foreign act, is certified by the Secretary of Treasury, we may be covered under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (as amended, “TRIA”), for up to 85% of our losses for certain property/casualty lines of insurance. However, any such coverage would be subject to a mandatory deductible based on 20% of earned premium for the prior year for the covered lines of commercial property and casualty insurance. Based on our 2013 earned premiums, our deductible under TRIA during 2014 is approximately $698 million. TRIA is currently in effect through December 31, 2014. We cannot be certain that TRIA will be extended past such expiration date. In addition, the coverage provided under TRIA does not apply to reinsurance that we write. Our earnings could be more volatile because of our significant level of retentions. As compared to a number of our competitors, we maintain significant retention levels in premiums written on certain classes of business. We purchase less reinsurance, the process by which we transfer, or cede, part of the risk we have assumed to a reinsurance company, thereby retaining more risk. As a result, our earnings could be more volatile and increased severities are more likely to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which increases our costs and could restrict the conduct of our business. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. This system of regulation, generally administered in the United States by a department of insurance in each state in which we do business, relates to, among other things: State insurance departments conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to the financial condition of insurance companies, holding company issues and other matters. Our Insurance-International business is also generally subject to a similar regulatory scheme in each of the jurisdictions where we conduct operations. Federal financial services modernization legislation and legislative and regulatory initiatives taken or which may be taken in response to the current conditions in the financial markets and the recent economic downturn may lead to additional federal regulation of the insurance industry in the coming years. In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which effected sweeping changes to financial services regulation in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act established the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), which is authorized to recommend that certain systemically significant non-bank financial companies, including insurance companies, be regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. The Dodd-Frank Act also established a Federal Insurance Office (“FIO”) which is authorized to study, monitor and report to Congress on the U.S. insurance industry and the significance of global reinsurance to the U.S. insurance market. The FIO also can recommend to the FSOC that it designate an insurer as an entity posing risks to the United States financial stability in the event of the insured's material financial distress or failure. The potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act 22 on the U.S. insurance business is not clear. Our business could be affected by changes, whether as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act or otherwise, to the U.S. system of insurance regulation or our designation or the designation of insurers or reinsurers with which we do business as systemically significant non-bank financial companies. Although U.S. state regulation is the primary form of regulation of insurance and reinsurance, in addition to the changes brought about by the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress has considered over the past years various proposals relating to the creation of an optional federal charter, repeal of the insurance company antitrust exemption from the McCarran Ferguson Act, and tax law changes. We may be subject to potentially increased federal oversight as a financial institution. With respect to international measures, Solvency II, the EU directive concerning the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers and reinsurers which was adopted by the European Parliament in April 2009, may affect our insurance businesses. Implementation of Solvency II in EU member states is currently scheduled to occur on January 1, 2016, and may require us to utilize a significant amount of resources to ensure compliance. In addition, Solvency II may have the effect of increasing the capital requirements of our EU domiciled insurers. Additionally, our capital requirements and compliance requirements may be adversely affected if the EU commission finds that the insurance regulatory regimes of the jurisdictions outside the EU in which we have insurance or reinsurance companies domiciled are not "equivalent" to the requirements of Solvency II. We may be unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals and our business may not fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority's interpretation of the laws and regulations. Also, some regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or monetarily penalize us. Also, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry, whether federal, state or foreign, or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities, may further restrict the conduct of our business. Risks Relating to Our Business Our international operations expose us to investment, political and economic risks, including foreign currency and credit risk. Our expanding international operations in the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, South America, Canada, Scandinavia, Asia and Australia expose us to increased investment, political and economic risks, including foreign currency and credit risk. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our investments in non-U.S.-denominated securities are subject to fluctuations in non-U.S. securities and currency markets, and those markets can be volatile. Non-U.S. currency fluctuations also affect the value of any dividends paid by our non-U.S. subsidiaries to their parent companies in the U.S. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel and qualified employees. We depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, including our Chairman and CEO, President and COO, senior executive officers, presidents of our operating units, experienced underwriters and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. If the quality of our underwriting team and other personnel decreases, we may be unable to maintain our current competitive position in the specialized markets in which we operate, and be unable to expand our operations into new markets. We cannot guarantee that our reinsurers will pay in a timely fashion, if at all, and, as a result, we could experience losses. We purchase reinsurance by transferring part of the risk that we have assumed, known as ceding, to a reinsurance company in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer contractually liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred or ceded to the reinsurer, it does not relieve us, the reinsured, of our liability to our policyholders. Our reinsurers may not pay the reinsurance recoverables that they owe to us or they may not pay such recoverables on a timely basis. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers, and if our reinsurers fail to pay us, our financial results would be adversely affected. Underwriting results and investment returns of some of our reinsurers may affect their future ability to pay claims. As of December 31, 2013, the amount due from our reinsurers was approximately $1,533 million, including amounts due from state funds and industry pools where it was intended that we would bear no risk. Certain of these amounts due from reinsurers are secured by letters of credit or by funds held in trust on our behalf. We are subject to credit risk relating to our policyholders, independent agents and brokers. In addition to exposure to credit risk related to our reinsurance recoverables and investment portfolio, we are exposed to credit risk in several other areas of our business, including credit risk relating to policyholders, independent agents and brokers. 23 For example our policyholders, independent agents or brokers may not pay a part of or the full amount of premiums owed to us or our brokers or other third party claim administrators may not deliver amounts owed on claims under our insurance and reinsurance contracts for which we have provided funds. As credit risk is generally a function of the economy, we face a greater credit risk in an economic downturn. While we attempt to manage credit risks through underwriting guidelines, collateral requirements and other oversight mechanisms, our efforts may not be successful. For example, to reduce such credit risk, we require certain third parties to post collateral for some or all of their obligations to us. In cases where we receive pledged securities and the applicable counterparty is unable to honor its obligations, we may be exposed to credit risk on the securities pledged and/or the risk that our access to that collateral may be stayed as a result of bankruptcy. In cases where we receive letters of credit from banks as collateral and one of our counterparties is unable to honor its obligations, we are exposed to the credit risk of the banks that issued the letters of credit. We are rated by A.M. Best, Standard & Poor's, and Moody's, and a decline in these ratings could affect our standing in the insurance industry and cause our sales and earnings to decrease. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Certain of our insurance company subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best, Standard & Poor's and Moody's. Our ratings are subject to periodic review, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our current or any future ratings. If our ratings are reduced from their current levels by A.M. Best, Standard & Poor's or Moody's, our competitive position in the insurance industry could suffer and it would be more difficult for us to market our products. A ratings downgrade could also adversely limit our access to capital markets, which may increase the cost of debt. A significant downgrade could result in a substantial loss of business as policyholders move to other companies with higher claims-paying and financial strength ratings. If market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain amounts of risk underwritten by our insurance company subsidiaries, especially catastrophe risks and those risks with relatively high policy limits. We also purchase reinsurance on risks underwritten by others which we reinsure. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we seek to purchase, which may affect the level of our business and profitability. Our reinsurance contracts are generally subject to annual renewal, and we may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance contracts or to obtain other reinsurance contracts in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. In addition, we may be unable to obtain reinsurance on terms acceptable to us relating to certain lines of business that we intend to begin writing. If we are unable to renew our expiring contracts or to obtain new reinsurance contracts, either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net exposures, we would have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, especially catastrophe exposed risks. Depending on conditions in the financial markets and the general economy, we may be unable to raise debt or equity capital if needed. If conditions in the financial markets and the general economy are unfavorable, which may result from disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets, we may be unable to access debt or equity capital on acceptable terms if needed, which could have a negative impact on our ability to invest in our insurance company subsidiaries and/or to take advantage of opportunities to expand our business, such as possible acquisitions and the creation of new ventures, and inhibit our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness if we desire to do so, on terms acceptable to us. We may not find suitable acquisition candidates or new insurance ventures and even if we do, we may not successfully integrate any such acquired companies or successfully invest in such ventures. As part of our present strategy, we continue to evaluate possible acquisition transactions and the start-up of complementary businesses on an ongoing basis, and at any given time we may be engaged in discussions with respect to possible acquisitions and new ventures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition targets or insurance ventures, that such transactions will be financed and completed on acceptable terms or that our future acquisitions or start-up ventures will be successful. The process of integrating any companies we do acquire or investing in new ventures may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we experience difficulties with our information technology, telecommunications or other computer systems, our ability to conduct our business could be negatively or severely impacted. Our business is highly dependent upon our employees' ability to perform necessary business functions in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion. A shut-down of, or inability to access, one or more of our facilities, a power outage or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other computer systems could significantly impair our employees' ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, terrorist attack or 24 industrial accident, or the infection of our systems by a malicious computer virus, our systems could be inaccessible for an extended period of time. In addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials or failures of controls if demand for our service exceeds capacity or a third-party system fails or experiences an interruption. If our business continuity plans or system security does not sufficiently address such a business interruption, system failure or service denial, our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions could be significantly impaired and our business could be harmed. Failure to maintain the security of our networks and confidential data may expose us to liability . Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Computer viruses, hackers, employee misconduct and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. In addition, we routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. Our outsourcing of certain technology and business process functions to third parties may expose us to enhanced risk related to data security. While we attempt to develop secure data transmission capabilities with these third-party vendors and others with whom we do business, we may be unable to put in place such secure capabilities with all of such vendors and third parties and, in addition, these third parties may not have appropriate controls in place to protect the confidentiality of the sensitive information being transferred. Our failure to protect sensitive personal and our proprietary information, whether owing to breaches of our own systems or those of our vendors, could result in significant monetary and reputational damages. These increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs. As a result, our ability to conduct our business could be materially and adversely affected. We could be adversely affected if our controls to ensure compliance with guidelines, policies and legal and regulatory standards are not effective. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to engage on a daily basis in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing and investment activities, many of which are highly complex. These activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory standards, including those related to privacy, anti-corruption, anti-bribery and global finance and insurance matters. Our continued expansion into new international markets has brought about additional requirements. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. If our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unanticipated risk exposure (including underwriting, credit and investment risk) or damage to our reputation. Risks Relating to Our Investments A significant amount of our assets is invested in fixed maturity securities and is subject to market fluctuations. Our investment portfolio consists substantially of fixed maturity securities. As of December 31, 2013, our investment in fixed maturity securities was approximately $11.6 billion, or 75% of our total investment portfolio. As of that date, our portfolio of fixed maturity securities consisted of the following types of securities: U.S. Government securities (7.6%); state and municipal securities (36.9%); corporate securities (36.2%); mortgage-backed securities (11.7%) and foreign government (7.6%). The fair value of these assets and the investment income from these assets fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair value of fixed maturity securities generally decreases as interest rates rise. If significant inflation were to occur, the fair value of our fixed maturity securities would be negatively impacted. Conversely, if interest rates decline, investment income earned from future investments in fixed maturity securities will be lower. Some fixed maturity securities, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, also carry prepayment risk as a result of interest rate fluctuations. Additionally, given the historically low interest rate environment, we may not be able to successfully reinvest the proceeds from maturing securities at yields commensurate with our target performance goals. The value of investments in fixed maturity securities is subject to impairment as a result of deterioration in the credit worthiness of the issuer, default by the issuer (including states and municipalities) in the performance of its obligations in respect of the securities and/or increases in market interest rates. To a large degree, the credit risk we face is a function of the economy; accordingly, we face a greater risk in an economic downturn or recession. During periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, particularly if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, more securities may require additional subjectivity and management judgment. Although the historical rates of default on state and municipal securities have been relatively low, our state and municipal fixed maturity securities could be subject to a higher risk of default or impairment due to declining municipal tax bases and revenue. The economic downturn has resulted in many states and municipalities operating under deficits or projected 25 deficits, the severity and duration of which could have an adverse impact on both the valuation of our state and municipal fixed maturity securities and the issuer's ability to perform its obligations thereunder. Additionally, our investments are subject to losses as a result of a general decrease in commercial and economic activity for an industry sector in which we invest, as well as risks inherent in particular securities. Although we attempt to manage these risks through the use of investment guidelines and other oversight mechanisms and by diversifying our portfolio and emphasizing preservation of principal, our efforts may not be successful. Impairments, defaults and/or rate increases could reduce our net investment income and net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. Investment returns are currently, and will likely continue to remain, under pressure due to the significant volatility experienced in the financial markets, economic uncertainty, more generally, and the shape of the yield curve. As a result, our exposure to the risks described above could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We invest some of our assets in equity securities, merger arbitrage securities, investment funds, private equity, loans and real estate related assets, which may decline in value. We invest a portion of our investment portfolio in equity securities, merger arbitrage securities, investment funds, private equity, loans and real estate related assets and have recently increased our investments in these asset classes as a result of the current historically low interest rate environment. At December 31, 2013, our investment in these assets was approximately $2.6 billion, or 17%, of our investment portfolio. We reported provisions for other than temporary impairments in the value of these assets of approximately $6 million in 2013 and $5 million in 2012. Merger and arbitrage trading securities were $522 million, or 3%, of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2013. Merger arbitrage involves investing in the securities of publicly held companies that are the targets in announced tender offers and mergers. Merger arbitrage differs from other types of investments in its focus on transactions and events believed likely to bring about a change in value over a relatively short time period, usually four months or less. Our merger arbitrage positions are exposed to the risk associated with the completion of announced deals, which are subject to regulatory as well as political and other risks. Investments in real estate investment funds and limited partnerships and loans receivable were $1.4 billion, or 9%, of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2013. The values of our real estate related investments are subject to fluctuations based on changes in the economy and interest rates in general and real estate valuations in particular. These investments have been subject to significant volatility as a result of the current conditions in the financial markets. In addition, our investments in real estate related assets and other alternative investments are less liquid than our other investments. Risks Relating to Purchasing Our Securities We are an insurance holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends in needed amounts. As an insurance holding company, our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our insurance company subsidiaries. We have to rely on dividends from our insurance company subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, paying dividends to stockholders and repurchasing our shares and paying corporate expenses. The payment of dividends by our insurance company subsidiaries is subject to regulatory restrictions and will depend on the surplus and future earnings of these subsidiaries, as well as regulatory restrictions. During 2014, the maximum amount of dividends that can be paid without regulatory approval is approximately $491 million. As a result, in the future we may not be able to receive dividends from these subsidiaries at times and in amounts necessary to meet our obligations, pay dividends or repurchase shares. Laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business could delay, deter or prevent an attempt to acquire control of us that stockholders might consider to be desirable, and may restrict a stockholder's ability to purchase our common stock. Generally, United States insurance holding company laws require that, before a person can acquire control of an insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance regulatory authorities in the state in which that insurance company is domiciled. Pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, “control” over an insurer is generally presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds the power to vote, or holds proxies representing 10% or more of the voting securities of that insurer. Indirect ownership includes ownership of the shares of our common stock. Thus, the insurance regulatory authorities of the states in which our insurance operating units are domiciled are likely to apply these restrictions on acquisition of control to any proposed acquisition of our common stock. Some states require a person seeking to acquire control of an insurer licensed but not domiciled in that state to make a filing prior to completing an acquisition if the acquirer and its affiliates, on the one hand, and the target insurer and its affiliates, on the other hand, have specified market shares in the same lines of insurance in that state. Additionally, many foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business impose similar restrictions and requirements. 26 While these provisions may not require acquisition approval, they can lead to the imposition of conditions on an acquisition that could delay or prevent its consummation. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. Certain provisions in our organizational documents may have the effect of hindering, delaying or preventing third party takeovers and thus may prevent our stockholders from receiving premium prices for their shares in an unsolicited takeover or make it more difficult for third parties to replace our current management. Provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws, as well as state insurance statutes, may hinder, delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions or changes of our control. These provisions may also have the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to cause the replacement of our current management without the concurrence of our board of directors. These provisions include: These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable.