. Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times at, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking information is based on information available at the time and/or our good faith belief with respect to future events, and is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements. Such factors include, among other things, the following: 42 Table of Contents 43 Table of Contents 44 Table of Contents Given these uncertainties, risks and assumptions, as outlined above, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Our actual results and financial condition could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made. We assume no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except as may be required by law. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. A summary of our significant accounting policies is outlined in Note 1 to the financial statements. We consider our critical accounting policies to be those that require us to make significant judgments and estimates when we prepare our financial statements, including the following: Revenue Recognition: We record revenues and related receivables for health care services at the time the services are provided. Medicare and Medicaid revenues represented 36% of our net patient revenues during 2014, 38% during 2013 and 39% during 2012. Revenues from managed care entities, including health maintenance organizations and managed Medicare and Medicaid programs accounted for 50% of our net patient revenues during 2014 and 49% during each of 2013 and 2012. We report net patient service revenue at the estimated net realizable amounts from patients and third-party payors and others for services rendered. We have agreements with third-party payors that provide for payments to us at amounts different from our established rates. Payment arrangements include prospectively determined rates per discharge, reimbursed costs, discounted charges and per diem payments. Estimates of contractual allowances under managed care plans are based upon the payment terms specified in the related contractual agreements. We closely monitor our historical collection rates, as well as changes in applicable laws, rules and 45 Table of Contents regulations and contract terms, to assure that provisions are made using the most accurate information available. However, due to the complexities involved in these estimations, actual payments from payors may be different from the amounts we estimate and record. We estimate our Medicare and Medicaid revenues using the latest available financial information, patient utilization data, government provided data and in accordance with applicable Medicare and Medicaid payment rules and regulations. The laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are extremely complex and subject to interpretation and as a result, there is at least a reasonable possibility that recorded estimates will change by material amounts in the near term. Certain types of payments by the Medicare program and state Medicaid programs (e.g. Medicare Disproportionate Share Hospital, Medicare Allowable Bad Debts and Inpatient Psychiatric Services) are subject to retroactive adjustment in future periods as a result of administrative review and audit and our estimates may vary from the final settlements. Such amounts are included in accounts receivable, net, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The funding of both federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs are subject to legislative and regulatory changes. As such, we cannot provide any assurance that future legislation and regulations, if enacted, will not have a material impact on our future Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. Adjustments related to the final settlement of these retrospectively determined amounts did not materially impact our results in 2014, 2013 and 2012. If it were to occur, each 1% adjustment to our estimated net Medicare revenues that are subject to retrospective review and settlement as of December 31, 2014, would change our after-tax net income by approximately $1 million. We provide care to patients who meet certain financial or economic criteria without charge or at amounts substantially less than our established rates. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts determined to qualify as charity care, they are not reported in net revenues or in accounts receivable, net. See additional disclosure below in Charity Care, Uninsured Discounts and Provision for Doubtful Accounts for our estimated uncompensated care provided and estimated cost of providing uncompensated care. Charity Care, Uninsured Discounts and Provision for Doubtful Accounts: Collection of receivables from third-party payers and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. Our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill which is the patient’s responsibility, primarily co-payments and deductibles. We estimate our provisions for doubtful accounts based on general factors such as payer mix, the agings of the receivables and historical collection experience. We routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions which might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. At our acute care hospitals, third party liability accounts are pursued until all payment and adjustments are posted to the patient account. For those accounts with a patient balance after third party liability is finalized or accounts for uninsured patients, the patient receives statements and collection letters. Our hospitals establish a partial reserve for self-pay accounts in the allowance for doubtful accounts for both unbilled balances and those that have been billed and are under 90 days old. All self-pay accounts are fully reserved at 90 days from the date of discharge. Third party liability accounts are fully reserved in the allowance for doubtful accounts when the balance ages past 180 days from the date of discharge. Patients that express an inability to pay are reviewed for potential sources of financial assistance including our charity care policy. If the patient is deemed unwilling to pay, the account is written-off as bad debt and transferred to an outside collection agency for additional collection effort. Historically, a significant portion of the patients treated throughout our portfolio of acute care hospitals are uninsured patients which, in part, has resulted from patients who are employed but do not have health insurance or who have policies with relatively high deductibles. Patients treated at our hospitals for non-elective services, who have gross income less than 400% of the federal poverty guidelines, are deemed eligible for charity care. The federal poverty guidelines are established by the federal government and are based on income and family size. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts that qualify as charity care, they are not reported in our net revenues or in our accounts receivable, net. A portion of the accounts receivable at our acute care facilities are comprised of Medicaid accounts that are pending approval from third-party payers but we also have smaller amounts due from other miscellaneous payers 46 Table of Contents such as county indigent programs in certain states. Our patient registration process includes an interview of the patient or the patient’s responsible party at the time of registration. At that time, an insurance eligibility determination is made and an insurance plan code is assigned. There are various pre-established insurance profiles in our patient accounting system which determine the expected insurance reimbursement for each patient based on the insurance plan code assigned and the services rendered. Certain patients may be classified as Medicaid pending at registration based upon a screening evaluation if we are unable to definitively determine if they are currently Medicaid eligible. When a patient is registered as Medicaid eligible or Medicaid pending, our patient accounting system records net revenues for services provided to that patient based upon the established Medicaid reimbursement rates, subject to the ultimate disposition of the patient’s Medicaid eligibility. When the patient’s ultimate eligibility is determined, reclassifications may occur which impacts the reported amounts in future periods for the provision for doubtful accounts and other accounts such as Medicaid pending. Although the patient’s ultimate eligibility determination may result in amounts being reclassified among these accounts from period to period, these reclassifications did not have a material impact on our results of operations in 2014, 2013 or 2012 since our facilities make estimates at each financial reporting period to reserve for amounts that are deemed to be uncollectible. We also provide discounts to uninsured patients (included in “uninsured discounts” amounts below) who do not qualify for Medicaid or charity care. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts classified as uninsured discounts, they are not reported in our net revenues or in our net accounts receivable. In implementing the discount policy, we first attempt to qualify uninsured patients for governmental programs, charity care or any other discount program. If an uninsured patient does not qualify for these programs, the uninsured discount is applied. Effective January 1, 2014, in response to market conditions and other considerations, we modified our uninsured discount policy and increased the discount to 60% of gross charges from 30% previously. Since we expect to collect only a small portion of amounts due from our uninsured patients, the increase in the uninsured discount in 2014 had no material impact on our net revenues, net income attributable to UHS or net accounts receivable, as compared to prior year periods. However, this change resulted in an increase in uninsured discounts and a decrease in the provision for doubtful accounts. Our accounts receivable are recorded net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $325 million and $395 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Approximately 84% during 2014 and 90% during 2013 of our consolidated provision for doubtful accounts, was incurred by our acute care hospitals. Shown below is our payer mix concentrations and related aging of our billed accounts receivable, net of contractual allowances, for our acute care hospitals as of December 31, 2014 and 2013: As of December 31, 2014: As of December 31, 2013: 47 Table of Contents Accounting for Medicare and Medicaid Electronic Health Records Incentive Payments: In July 2010, the Department of Health and Human Services published final regulations implementing the health information technology provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The regulation defines the “meaningful use” of Electronic Health Records (“EHR”) and established the requirements for the Medicare and Medicaid EHR payment incentive programs. The implementation period for these new Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments started in federal fiscal year 2011 and can end as late as 2016 for Medicare and 2021 for the state Medicaid programs. We recognize income related to Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments using a gain contingency model that is based upon when our eligible hospitals have demonstrated “meaningful use” of certified EHR technology for the applicable period and the cost report information for the full cost report year that will determine the final calculation of the incentive payment is available. Medicare EHR incentive payments: Federal regulations require that Medicare EHR incentive payments be computed based on the Medicare cost report that begins in the federal fiscal period in which a hospital meets the applicable “meaningful use” requirements. Since the annual Medicare cost report periods for each of our acute care hospitals ends on December 31 st , we will recognize Medicare EHR incentive income for each hospital during the fourth quarter of the year in which the facility meets the “meaningful use” criteria and during the fourth quarter of each applicable subsequent year. Medicaid EHR incentive payments: Medicaid EHR incentive payments are determined based upon prior period cost report information available at the time our hospitals met the “meaningful use” criteria. Therefore, the majority of the Medicaid EHR incentive income recognition occurred in the period in which the applicable hospitals were deemed to have met initial “meaningful use” criteria. Upon meeting subsequent fiscal year “meaningful use” criteria, our hospitals may become entitled to additional Medicaid EHR incentive payments which will be recognized as incentive income in future periods. Medicaid EHR incentive payments received prior to our hospitals meeting the “meaningful use” criteria were included in other current liabilities (as deferred EHR incentive income) in our consolidated balance sheet. Self-Insured/Other Insurance Risks: We provide for self-insured risks, primarily general and professional liability claims and workers’ compensation claims. Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and general liability claims is based on a number of factors including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts, estimate of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable under our commercial insurance policies. All relevant information, including our own historical experience is used in estimating the expected amount of claims. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved in making this estimate. Our estimated self-insured reserves are reviewed and changed, if necessary, at each reporting date and changes are recognized currently as additional expense or as a reduction of expense. In addition, we also: (i) own a commercial health insurer headquartered in Reno, Nevada, and; (ii) maintain self-insured employee benefits programs for employee healthcare and dental claims. The ultimate costs related to these programs/operations include expenses for claims incurred and paid in addition to an accrual for the estimated expenses incurred in connection with claims incurred but not yet reported. Given our significant insurance-related exposure, there can be no assurance that a sharp increase in the number and/or severity of claims asserted against us will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Professional and General Liability and Workers Compensation Liability: Effective November, 2010, excluding certain subsidiaries acquired since 2010 as discussed below, the vast majority of our subsidiaries are self-insured for professional and general liability exposure up to $10 million and $3 million per occurrence, respectively. Our subsidiaries were provided with several excess policies through commercial insurance carriers which provide for coverage in excess of the applicable per occurrence self-insured retention (either $3 million or $10 million) up to $250 million per occurrence and in the aggregate for claims incurred in 2014 and up to $200 million per occurrence and in the aggregate for claims incurred from 2011 48 Table of Contents through 2013. We remain liable for 10% of the claims paid pursuant to the commercially insured coverage in excess of $10 million up to $60 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. Since our acquisition of Psychiatric Solutions, Inc. (“PSI”) in November, 2010, the former PSI subsidiaries are self-insured for professional and general liability exposure up to $3 million per occurrence. The nine behavioral health facilities acquired from Ascend Health Corporation (“Ascend”) in October, 2012 have general and professional liability policies through commercial insurance carriers which provide for up to $12 million of aggregate coverage, subject to a $100,000 per occurrence deductible. The 17 facilities acquired from Cygnet Health Care Limited (“Cygnet”), consisting of 15 inpatient behavioral health hospitals and 2 nursing homes, have policies through a commercial insurance carrier located in the United Kingdom that provides for £10 million of professional liability coverage and £25 million of general liability coverage. The facilities acquired from PSI, Ascend and Cygnet, like our other facilities, are also provided excess coverage through commercial insurance carriers for coverage in excess of the underlying commercial policy limitations, as mentioned above. Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and general liability claims is based on a number of factors including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts, estimates of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable under our commercial insurance policies. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved in making this estimate. Given our significant self-insured exposure for professional and general liability claims, there can be no assurance that a sharp increase in the number and/or severity of claims asserted against us will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. As of December 31, 2014, the total accrual for our professional and general liability claims was $193 million, of which $51 million is included in current liabilities. As of December 31, 2013, the total accrual for our professional and general liability claims was $206 million, of which $44 million is included in current liabilities. We recorded reductions to our professional and general liability self-insurance reserves (relating to prior years) amounting to $20 million during 2014, $81 million during 2013 and $27 million during 2012. The favorable changes recorded during 2014 and 2012 resulted from changes in our estimated future claims payments pursuant to a reserve analysis. The favorable change in our estimated future claims payments recorded during 2013, relating to years prior to 2013, were due primarily to: (i) an increased weighting given to company-specific metrics (to 100% from 75%), and decreased general industry metrics (to 0% from 25%), related to projected incidents per exposure, historical claims experience and loss development factors; (ii) historical data which measured the realized favorable impact of medical malpractice tort reform experienced in several states in which we operate, and; (iii) a decrease in claims related to certain higher risk specialties (such as obstetrical) due to a continuation of the company-wide patient safety initiative undertaken during the last several years. As the number of our facilities and our patient volumes have increased, thereby providing for a statistically significant data group, and taking into consideration our long-history of company-specific risk management programs and claims experience, our reserve analyses have included a greater emphasis on our historical professional and general liability experience which has developed favorably as compared to general industry trends. As of December 31, 2014, the total accrual for our workers’ compensation liability claims was $67 million, of which $32 million is included in current liabilities. As of December 31, 2013, the total accrual for our workers’ compensation liability claims was $64 million, of which $34 million is included in current liabilities. During the last three years, adjustments recorded to our prior year reserves for workers’ compensation claims did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 or 2012. Although we are unable to predict whether or not our future financial statements will include adjustments to our prior year reserves for self-insured general and professional and workers’ compensation claims, given the relatively unpredictable nature of the these potential liabilities and the factors impacting these reserves, as discussed above, it is reasonably likely that our future financial results may include material adjustments to prior period reserves. 49 Table of Contents Below is a schedule showing the changes in our general and professional liability and workers’ compensation reserves during the three years ended December 31, 2014 (amount in thousands): Property Insurance: We have commercial property insurance policies covering catastrophic losses, including windstorm damage, up to a $1 billion policy limit per occurrence, subject to a $250,000 deductible for the majority of our properties (the properties acquired from PSI are subject to a $50,000 deductible). Losses resulting from named windstorms are subject to deductibles between 3% and 5% of the declared total insurable value of the property. In addition, we have commercial property insurance policies covering catastrophic losses resulting from earthquake and flood damage, each subject to aggregated loss limits (as opposed to per occurrence losses). Our earthquake limit is $250 million, subject to a deductible of $250,000, except for facilities located within documented fault zones. Earthquake losses that affect facilities located in fault zones within the United States are subject to a $100 million limit and will have applied deductibles ranging from 1% to 5% of the declared total insurable value of the property. The earthquake limit in Puerto Rico is $25 million, subject to a $25,000 deductible. Non-critical flood losses have either a $250,000 or $500,000 deductible, based upon the location of the facility. Since certain of our facilities have been designated by our insurer as flood prone, we have elected to purchase policies from The National Flood Insurance Program to cover a substantial portion of the applicable deductible. Property insurance for the facilities acquired from Cygnet are provided on an all risk basis up to a £180 million limit that includes coverage for real and personal property as well as business interruption losses. Long-Lived Assets: We review our long-lived assets, including intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of our asset based on our estimate of its undiscounted future cash flow. If the analysis indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable from future cash flows, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value and an impairment loss is recognized. Fair values are determined based on estimated future cash flows using appropriate discount rates. Goodwill and Intangible Assets: Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or sooner if the indicators of impairment arise. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and operational performance of each reporting unit. We have designated September 1 st as our annual impairment assessment date and performed an impairment assessment as of September 1, 2014 which indicated no impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. There were also no impairments during 2013 or 2012. Future changes in the 50 Table of Contents estimates used to conduct the impairment review, including profitability and market value projections, could indicate impairment in future periods potentially resulting in a write-off of a portion or all of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. Income Taxes: Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the amount of taxes payable or deductible in future years as a result of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements. We believe that future income will enable us to realize our deferred tax assets net of recorded valuation allowances relating to state net operating loss carry-forwards. We operate in multiple jurisdictions with varying tax laws. We are subject to audits by any of these taxing authorities. Our tax returns have been examined by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) through the year ended December 31, 2006. We believe that adequate accruals have been provided for federal, foreign and state taxes. See Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rates below for discussion of our effective tax rates during each of the last three years. Recent Accounting Pronouncements: For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements, please see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Standards as included in this Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. 51 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations, and is used in the discussion below, for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 (dollar amounts in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2013: Net revenues increased 11% or $782 million to $8.07 billion during 2014 as compared to $7.28 billion during 2013. The increase was primarily attributable to: 52 Table of Contents Income before income taxes (before deduction for income attributable to noncontrolling interests) increased $60 million to $930 million during 2014 as compared to $869 million during 2013. Included in our income before income taxes during 2014, as compared to 2013, was the following: Net income attributable to UHS increased $35 million to $545 million during 2014 as compared to $511 million during 2013. The increase consisted of: 53 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2012: Net revenues increased 5% or $322 million to $7.28 billion during 2013 as compared to $6.96 billion during 2012. The increase was primarily attributable to: Income before income taxes (before deduction for income attributable to noncontrolling interests) increased $106 million to $869 million during 2013 as compared to $764 million during 2012. Included in our income before income taxes during 2013, as compared to 2012, was the following: 54 Table of Contents Net income attributable to UHS increased $67 million to $511 million during 2013 as compared to $443 million during 2012. The increase consisted of: Acute Care Hospital Services Year Ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2013: Acute Care Hospitals-Same Facility Basis We believe that providing our results on a “Same Facility” basis, which includes the operating results for facilities owned in both the current year and prior year periods, is helpful to our investors as a measure of our operating performance. Our “Same Facility” results also neutralize the impact of the EHR applications and the effect of items that are non-operational in nature including items such as, but not limited to, gains on sales of assets and businesses, impacts of settlements, legal judgments and lawsuits and other amounts that may be reflected in the current or prior year financial statements that relate to prior periods. The following table summarizes the results of operations for our acute care facilities on a same facility basis and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 (dollar amounts in thousands): 55 Table of Contents On a same facility basis during 2014, as compared to 2013, net revenues at our acute care hospitals increased $355 million or 10%. Income before income taxes increased $207 million or 75% to $484 million or 12.3% of net revenues during 2014 as compared to $277 million or 7.8% of net revenues during 2013. The increased income before income taxes experienced at our acute care facilities during 2014, as compared to 2013, was due in part to improving general economic conditions as well as a decrease in the number of uninsured patients treated at our hospitals. The decrease in the number of uninsured patients treated at our acute care hospitals was due primarily to the favorable impact of the Affordable Care Act which includes the expansion of Medicaid in certain states in which we operate and the enrollment of patients in newly created commercial exchanges. Inpatient admissions to these facilities increased 0.6% during 2014, as compared to 2013, while patient days increased 3.9%. Adjusted admissions (adjusted for outpatient activity) increased 3.1% and adjusted patient days increased 6.5% during 2014, as compared to 2013. The average length of inpatient stay at these facilities was 4.7 days during 2014 and 4.5 days during 2013. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 58% during 2014 and 56% during 2013. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities increased 6.6% during 2014, as compared to 2013, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 3.3% during 2014, as compared to 2013. All Acute Care Hospitals The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our acute care operations during 2014 and 2013, which includes our acute care results on a same facility basis, as well as the impact of other items as mentioned below (dollar amounts in thousands). During 2014, as compared to 2013, net revenues at our acute care hospitals increased $529 million or 15% to $4.11 billion due primarily to: (i) a $355 million, or 10%, increase same facility revenues, as discussed above, and; (ii) other combined net increase of $174 million consisting primarily of the net revenues generated during 2014 related to the acquisition of a commercial health insurer headquartered in Reno, Nevada and a full year of net revenues generated during 2014 at Temecula Valley Hospital, a 140-bed, newly constructed acute care facility that was completed and opened during the fourth quarter of 2013. 56 Table of Contents Income before income taxes increased $123 million to $465 million or 11.3% of net revenues during 2014 as compared to $342 million or 9.6% of net revenues during 2013. Included in these results are the following: Uncompensated care (charity care and uninsured discounts): The following table shows the amounts recorded at our acute care hospitals for charity care and uninsured discounts, based on charges at established rates, for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012: The provision for doubtful accounts at our acute care hospitals decreased to approximately $590 million during 2014 as compared to $1.02 billion during 2013. The decrease in the provision for doubtful accounts during 2014, as compared to 2013, was primarily due to the increase in the uninsured discount (effective January 1, 2014, as discussed above in Charity Care, Uninsured discounts and Provision for Doubtful Accounts) , and reclassifications among provision for doubtful accounts and other accounts such as Medicaid pending based upon our patients’ ultimate eligibility determination, as discussed above. The estimated cost of providing uncompensated care: The estimated cost of providing uncompensated care, as reflected below, were based on a calculation which multiplied the percentage of operating expenses for our acute care hospitals to gross charges for those hospitals by the above-mentioned total uncompensated care amounts. The percentage of cost to gross charges is calculated based on the total operating expenses for our acute care facilities divided by gross patient service revenue for those facilities. An increase in the level of uninsured patients to our facilities and the resulting adverse trends in the provision for doubtful accounts and uncompensated care provided could have a material unfavorable impact on our future operating results. 57 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2012: Acute Care Hospitals-Same Facility Basis The following table summarizes the results of operations for our acute care facilities on a same facility basis and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (dollar amounts in thousands): On a same facility basis during 2013, as compared to 2012, net revenues at our acute care hospitals increased $129 million or 4%. Income before income taxes decreased $15 million or 5% to $277 million or 7.8% of net revenues during 2013 as compared to $291 million or 8.5% of net revenues during 2012. Inpatient admissions to these facilities increased 0.2% during 2013, as compared to 2012, while patient days increased 1.4%. Adjusted admissions increased 1.0% and adjusted patient days increased 2.2% during 2013, as compared to 2012. The average length of inpatient stay at these facilities was 4.5 days during each of 2013 and 2012. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 56% during each of 2013 and 2012. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities increased 2.7% during 2013, as compared to 2012, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 1.5% during 2013, as compared to 2012. 58 Table of Contents All Acute Care Hospitals The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our acute care operations during 2013 and 2012, which includes our acute care results on a same facility basis, as well as the impact of other items as mentioned below (dollar amounts in thousands). During 2013, as compared to 2012, net revenues at our acute care hospitals increased $115 million or 3% to $3.58 billion due primarily to an increase in same facility revenues, as discussed above. Income before income taxes increased $5 million to $342 million or 9.6% of net revenues during 2013 as compared to $337 million or 9.7% of net revenues during 2012. Included in these results are the following: 59 Table of Contents Behavioral Health Care Services Year Ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2013 Behavioral Health Care Facilities-Same Facility Basis The following table summarizes the results of operations for our behavioral health care facilities, on a same facility basis, and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 (dollar amounts in thousands): On a same facility basis during 2014, as compared to 2013, net revenues at our behavioral health care facilities increased $202 million or 6% to $3.85 billion during 2014 as compared to $3.65 billion during 2013. Income before income taxes increased $45 million or 5% to $930 million or 24.1% of net revenues during 2014 as compared to $885 million or 24.2% of net revenues during 2013. Inpatient admissions and adjusted admissions to these facilities each increased 4.7% during 2014, as compared to 2013, while patient days and adjusted patient days each increased 1.7%. The average length of patient stay at these facilities was 12.7 days during 2014 and 13.1 days during 2013. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 75% during each of 2014 and 2013. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities decreased 0.3% during 2014, as compared to 2013, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 2.7% during 2014, as compared to 2013. 60 Table of Contents All Behavioral Health Care Facilities The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our behavioral health care facilities during 2014 and 2013 which includes our behavioral health results on a same facility basis, as well as the impact of the facilities acquired or opened within the previous twelve months and the impact of the other items as mentioned below (dollar amounts in thousands): During 2014, as compared to 2013, net revenues at our behavioral health care facilities increased 8% or $278 million to $3.95 billion during 2014 as compared to $3.67 billion during 2013. The increase in net revenues was attributable to: Income before income taxes increased $48 million or 5% to $944 million or 23.9% of net revenues during 2014 as compared to $896 million or 24.4% of net revenues during 2013. The increase in income before income taxes at our behavioral health facilities was attributable to: 61 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2012 Behavioral Health Care Facilities-Same Facility Basis The following table summarizes the results of operations for our behavioral health care facilities, on a same facility basis, and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (dollar amounts in thousands): On a same facility basis during 2013, as compared to 2012, net revenues at our behavioral health care facilities increased $110 million or 3% to $3.51 billion during 2013 as compared to $3.40 billion during 2012. Income before income taxes increased $36 million or 4% to $854 million or 24.3% of net revenues during 2013 as compared to $818 million or 24.1% of net revenues during 2012. Inpatient admissions to these facilities increased 3.2% during 2013, as compared to 2012, while patient days increased 0.7%. Adjusted admissions increased 3.5% and adjusted patient days increased 1.0% during 2013, as compared to 2012. The average length of patient stay at these facilities was 13.4 days during 2013 and 13.7 days during 2012. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 75% during 2013 and 74% during 2012. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities decreased 0.3% during 2013, as compared to 2012, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 2.2% during 2013, as compared to 2012. 62 Table of Contents All Behavioral Health Care Facilities The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our behavioral health care facilities for 2013 and 2012, including, for the period of January through October of 2013, the nine facilities acquired in October, 2012 from Ascend Health Corporation (the operating results for these facilities for November and December of 2013 and 2012 are included in the same facility results discussed above), as well as the impact of other items as mentioned below (dollar amounts in thousands): During 2013, as compared to 2012, net revenues at our behavioral health care facilities increased 6% or $208 million to $3.67 billion during 2013 as compared to $3.46 billion during 2012. The increase in net revenues was attributable to: Income before income taxes increased $57 million or 7% to $896 million or 24.4% of net revenues during 2013, as compared to $839 million or 24.2% of net revenues during 2012. The increase in income before income taxes at our behavioral health facilities was attributable to: 63 Table of Contents Sources of Revenue Overview: We receive payments for services rendered from private insurers, including managed care plans, the federal government under the Medicare program, state governments under their respective Medicaid programs and directly from patients. Hospital revenues depend upon inpatient occupancy levels, the medical and ancillary services and therapy programs ordered by physicians and provided to patients, the volume of outpatient procedures and the charges or negotiated payment rates for such services. Charges and reimbursement rates for inpatient routine services vary depending on the type of services provided (e.g., medical/surgical, intensive care or behavioral health) and the geographic location of the hospital. Inpatient occupancy levels fluctuate for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control. The percentage of patient service revenue attributable to outpatient services has generally increased in recent years, primarily as a result of advances in medical technology that allow more services to be provided on an outpatient basis, as well as increased pressure from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers to reduce hospital stays and provide services, where possible, on a less expensive outpatient basis. We believe that our experience with respect to our increased outpatient levels mirrors the general trend occurring in the health care industry and we are unable to predict the rate of growth and resulting impact on our future revenues. Patients are generally not responsible for any difference between customary hospital charges and amounts reimbursed for such services under Medicare, Medicaid, some private insurance plans, and managed care plans, but are responsible for services not covered by such plans, exclusions, deductibles or co-insurance features of their coverage. The amount of such exclusions, deductibles and co-insurance has generally been increasing each year. Indications from recent federal and state legislation are that this trend will continue. Collection of amounts due from individuals is typically more difficult than from governmental or business payers which unfavorably impacts the collectability of our patient accounts. The following tables show the approximate percentages of net patient revenue during the past three years (excludes sources of revenues for all periods presented for divested facilities which are reflected as discontinued operations in our Consolidated Financial Statements) for: (i) our Acute Care and Behavioral Health Care Facilities Combined; (ii) our Acute Care Facilities, and; (iii) our Behavioral Health Care Facilities. Net patient revenue is defined as revenue from all sources after deducting contractual allowances and discounts from established billing rates, which we derived from various sources of payment for the years indicated. 64 Table of Contents Medicare: Medicare is a federal program that provides certain hospital and medical insurance benefits to persons aged 65 and over, some disabled persons and persons with end-stage renal disease. All of our acute care hospitals and many of our behavioral health centers are certified as providers of Medicare services by the appropriate governmental authorities. Amounts received under the Medicare program are generally significantly less than a hospital’s customary charges for services provided. Since a substantial portion of our revenues will come from patients under the Medicare program, our ability to operate our business successfully in the future will depend in large measure on our ability to adapt to changes in this program. Under the Medicare program, for inpatient services, our general acute care hospitals receive reimbursement under the inpatient prospective payment system (“IPPS”). Under the IPPS, hospitals are paid a predetermined fixed payment amount for each hospital discharge. The fixed payment amount is based upon each patient’s Medicare severity diagnosis related group (“MS-DRG”). Every MS-DRG is assigned a payment rate based upon the estimated intensity of hospital resources necessary to treat the average patient with that particular diagnosis. The MS-DRG payment rates are based upon historical national average costs and do not consider the actual costs incurred by a hospital in providing care. This MS-DRG assignment also affects the predetermined capital rate paid with each MS-DRG. The MS-DRG and capital payment rates are adjusted annually by the predetermined geographic adjustment factor for the geographic region in which a particular hospital is located and are weighted based upon a statistically normal distribution of severity. While we generally will not receive payment from Medicare for inpatient services, other than the MS-DRG payment, a hospital may qualify for an “outlier” payment if a particular patient’s treatment costs are extraordinarily high and exceed a specified threshold. MS-DRG rates are adjusted by an update factor each federal fiscal year, which begins on October 1. The index used to adjust the MS-DRG rates, known as the “hospital market basket index,” gives consideration to the inflation experienced by hospitals in purchasing goods and services. Generally, however, the percentage increases in the MS-DRG payments have been lower than the projected increase in the cost of goods and services purchased by hospitals. In August, 2014, CMS published its IPPS 2015 payment rule which provides for a 2.9% market basket increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates, documenting and coding adjustments and Health Care Reform mandated adjustments are considered, without consideration for the decreases related to the required Medicare Disproportionate Share Hospital (“DSH”) payment changes and increase to the Medicare Outlier threshold, the 65 Table of Contents overall increase in IPPS payments would approximate 0.6%. Including the estimated decreases to our DSH payments (–1.9%) and Medicare Outlier threshold (–0.6%), we estimate our overall decrease from the IPPS 2015 rule (covering the period of October 1, 2014 through September 30, 2015) will approximate (–1.9%), or approximately $13 million annually. This projected impact from the IPPS 2015 rule includes both the impact of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 documentation and coding adjustment and the required changes to the DSH payments related to the traditional Medicare fee for service, however, it excludes the impact of the sequestration reductions related to the Budget Control Act of 2011, as discussed below. In August, 2013, CMS published its final IPPS 2014 payment rule which provides for a 2.5% market basket increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates, documenting and coding adjustments and Health Care Reform mandated adjustments are considered, we estimate our overall increase from the final federal fiscal year 2014 rule (covering the period of October 1, 2013 through September 30, 2014) approximated 1.0%. This projected impact from the IPPS 2014 final rule includes both the impact of the ATRA of 2012 documentation and coding adjustment and the required changes to the Medicare Disproportionate Share Hospital payments related to the traditional Medicare fee for service, however, it excludes the impact of the sequestration reductions related to the Budget Control Act of 2011, as discussed below. The final rule also expands CMS’s policy under which it defines inpatient admissions to include the use of an objective time of care standard. Specifically, it would require Medicare’s external review contractors to presume that hospital inpatient admissions are reasonable and necessary when beneficiaries receive a physician order for admission and receive medically necessary services for at least two midnights (the “Two Midnight” rule). Correspondingly, under the final rule, CMS presumes that hospital services spanning less than two midnights should have been provided on an outpatient basis and paid under Medicare Part B unless the medical record contains clear documentation supporting the physician’s order and an expectation that the Medicare beneficiary would need medically necessary care for more than two midnights, or is receiving services which CMS designates as inpatient only. Our acute care hospitals have begun to comply with the Two Midnight rule and, although we are unable to determine the ultimate impact at this time, its application could have a material unfavorable impact on our future results of operations. Excluding the potential impact of the Two Midnight rule, we do not expect the final IPPS 2014 payment rule to have a material impact on our future results of operations. In February, 2014, CMS extended by an additional six months a policy under which Recovery Auditor Contractors and other Medicare review contractors will not conduct post-payment patient status reviews of inpatient hospital claims with dates of admission on or after October 1, 2013 through September 30, 2014. Due to the continued delay in awarding contracts to new Recovery Audit Contractors, beginning in August, 2014, CMS initiated modifications to the current Recovery Auditor Contractor agreements to allow the restart of some reviews. In August, 2012, CMS published its final IPPS 2013 payment rule which provided for a 2.6% market basket increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates, documenting and coding adjustments and Health Care Reform mandated adjustments are considered, we estimate our overall increase from the final federal fiscal year 2013 rule (covering the period of October 1, 2012 through September 30, 2013) approximated 1.8%. The impact from the IPPS 2013 final rule reflects all of the adjustments described in this paragraph, however, it excludes the impact of potential reductions related to the Budget Control Act of 2011, as discussed below. In August, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “2011 Act”) was enacted into law. Included in this law are the imposition of annual spending limits for most federal agencies and programs aimed at reducing budget deficits by $917 billion between 2012 and 2021, according to a report released by the Congressional Budget Office. Among its other provisions, the law established a bipartisan Congressional committee, known as the Joint Committee, which was responsible for developing recommendations aimed at reducing future federal budget deficits by an additional $1.5 trillion over 10 years. The Joint Committee was unable to reach an agreement by the November 23, 2011 deadline and, as a result, across-the-board cuts to discretionary, national defense and Medicare spending were implemented on March 1, 2013 resulting in Medicare payment reductions of up to 2% per fiscal year (approximately $35 million annual reduction to our Medicare net revenues effective as of April 1, 2013) with a uniform percentage reduction across all Medicare programs. 66 Table of Contents On January 2, 2013 ATRA was enacted which, among other things, includes a requirement for CMS to recoup $11 billion from hospitals from Medicare IPPS rates during federal fiscal years 2014 to 2017. The recoupment relates to IPPS documentation and coding adjustments for the period 2008 to 2013 for which adjustments were not previously applied by CMS. Both the 2014 and 2015 IPPS final rules include a -0.8% recoupment adjustment. CMS expects to make similar adjustments in federal fiscal years 2016 and 2017 in order to recover the entire $11 billion. This adjustment is reflected in the 2014 and 2015 IPPS estimated impact amounts noted above. On January 1, 2005, CMS implemented a new Psychiatric Prospective Payment System (“Psych PPS”) for inpatient services furnished by psychiatric hospitals under the Medicare program. This system replaced the cost-based reimbursement guidelines with a per diem Psych PPS with adjustments to account for certain facility and patient characteristics. The Psych PPS also contained provisions for outlier payments and an adjustment to a psychiatric hospital’s base payment if it maintains a full-service emergency department. In August, 2012, CMS published its final Psych PPS rate notice for the federal fiscal year beginning October 1, 2012. That final notice contained a Psych PPS market basket update of 2.7%, which was reduced by 0.7% to reflect a productivity adjustment, and reduced by 0.1% to reflect an “other adjustment” required by the Social Security Act for rate years 2010 through 2019. In July, 2013, CMS released its final Psych PPS rate notice for the federal fiscal year 2014. The final notice contains a Psych PPS market basket update of 2.6% which is reduced by 0.5% to reflect a productivity adjustment, and reduced by 0.1% to reflect an “other adjustment” required by the Social Security Act. On July 31, 2014, CMS published it Psych PPS final rule for the federal fiscal year 2015. Under this final rule, payments to psychiatric hospitals and units are estimated to increase by 2.1% compared to federal fiscal year 2014. This amount includes the effect of the 2.9% market basket update adjusted by the Affordable Care Act required 0.3% reduction and the -0.5% productivity adjustment. The final rule also updates the Inpatient Psychiatric Quality Reporting Program, which requires psychiatric facilities to report on quality measures or incur a reduction in their annual payment update. In October, 2014, CMS published its Medicare Outpatient Prospective Payment System (“OPPS”) final rule for 2015. The proposed hospital market basket increase is 2.9%. The Medicare statute requires a productivity adjustment reduction of 0.5% and 0.2% reduction to the 2015 OPPS market basket resulting in a 2015 OPPS market basket update at 2.2%. In the final rule, CMS will reduce the 2015 Medicare rates for both hospital-based and community mental health center partial hospitalization programs. When other statutorily required adjustments, hospital patient service mix and the aforementioned partial hospitalization rates are considered, we estimate that our overall Medicare OPPS for 2015 will aggregate to a net increase of 0.2%. Excluding the behavioral health division partial hospitalization rate impact, our Medicare OPPS payment increase for 2015 is estimated to be 1.5%. In December, 2013, CMS published its annual final OPPS rule for 2014. The final hospital market basket increase is 2.5%. The Medicare statute requires a productivity adjustment reduction of 0.5% and 0.3% reduction to the 2014 OPPS market basket reducing the final 2014 OPPS market basket update to 1.7%. In the final rule, CMS reduced the 2014 Medicare rates for both hospital-based and community mental health center partial hospitalization programs. When other statutorily required adjustments, hospital patient service mix and the aforementioned partial hospitalization rates are considered, we estimate that our overall Medicare OPPS for 2014 will aggregate to a net increase of 1.4%. Excluding the behavioral health partial hospitalization rate impact, our Medicare OPPS payment increase for 2014 is estimated to be 2.5%. In November, 2012, CMS published its annual final Medicare OPPS rule for 2013. The market basket increase to the OPPS base rate is 2.6%. In addition, as outlined in the Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform discussion below, CMS was also required by federal law to reduce the update factor by 0.1% in federal fiscal year 2013 and to reduce the annual update by a productivity adjustment which is 0.7%. In the final rule, CMS implemented a significant increase in the 2013 Medicare rates for both hospital-based and community mental health center partial hospitalization programs. When other statutorily required adjustments, hospital 67 Table of Contents patient service mix and the aforementioned partial hospitalization rates are considered, our overall Medicare OPPS payment increase for 2013 is estimated to be 3.5%. Excluding the behavioral health division partial hospitalization rate impact, our Medicare OPPS payment increase for 2013 was approximately 1.7%. Medicaid: Medicaid is a joint federal-state funded health care benefit program that is administered by the states to provide benefits to qualifying individuals who are unable to afford care. Most state Medicaid payments are made under a PPS-like system, or under programs that negotiate payment levels with individual hospitals. Amounts received under the Medicaid program are generally significantly less than a hospital’s customary charges for services provided. In addition to revenues received pursuant to the Medicare program, we receive a large portion of our revenues either directly from Medicaid programs or from managed care companies managing Medicaid. All of our acute care hospitals and most of our behavioral health centers are certified as providers of Medicaid services by the appropriate governmental authorities. We receive Medicaid revenues in excess of $90 million annually from each of Texas, Washington, D.C., Pennsylvania, California, Illinois, Nevada, Virginia and Florida, making us particularly sensitive to reductions in Medicaid and other state based revenue programs as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. Based upon the state budgets for those states for the 2015 fiscal year (which generally began at various times during the second half of 2014), we estimate that, on a blended basis, our aggregate Medicaid rates were relatively unchanged from the 2014 fiscal year rates. The Affordable Care Act substantially increases the federally and state-funded Medicaid insurance program, and authorizes states to establish federally subsidized non-Medicaid health plans for low-income residents not eligible for Medicaid starting in 2014. However, the Supreme Court has struck down portions of the Affordable Care Act requiring states to expand their Medicaid programs in exchange for increased federal funding. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that states in which we operate will expand Medicaid coverage to individuals at 133% of the federal poverty level. Facilities in states not opting to expand Medicaid coverage under the Affordable Care Act may be additionally penalized by corresponding reductions to Medicaid disproportionate share hospital payments, as discussed below. We can provide no assurance that further reductions to Medicaid revenues, particularly in the above-mentioned states, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Texas Uncompensated Care/Upper Payment Limit Payments: Certain of our acute care hospitals located in various counties of Texas (Hidalgo, Maverick, Potter and Webb) participate in Medicaid supplemental payment Section 1115 Waiver indigent care programs. Section 1115 Waiver Uncompensated Care (“UC”) payments replace the former Upper Payment Limit (“UPL”) payments. These hospitals also have affiliation agreements with third-party hospitals to provide free hospital and physician care to qualifying indigent residents of these counties. Our hospitals receive both supplemental payments from the Medicaid program and indigent care payments from third-party, affiliated hospitals. The supplemental payments are contingent on the county or hospital district making an Inter-Governmental Transfer (“IGT”) to the state Medicaid program while the indigent care payment is contingent on a transfer of funds from the applicable affiliated hospitals. However, the county or hospital district is prohibited from entering into an agreement to condition any IGT on the amount of any private hospital’s indigent care obligation. We recorded net revenues/benefit from UPL and affiliated hospital indigent care revenues of $68 million during 2014, $61 million during 2013 and $25 million during 2012, net of provider taxes (of $17 million in 2014, $10 million in 2013 and $0 in 2012). If the applicable hospital district or county makes IGTs consistent with 2014 levels, and without giving effect to potential reductions resulting from the February, 2015, THHSC proposed rule, which is discussed below, we believe we would be entitled to aggregate net revenues/benefit earned pursuant to these programs of approximately $58 million during 2015, net of provider taxes (of $11 million). On February 6, 2015, THHSC published a proposed rule that would shift $136 million in funding from the private hospital UC pool to the large public hospital UC pool for the 2014 UC program year only. THHSC has not provided an estimated impact from this proposed shift due to the fact that certain UC data elements are not yet available. As such, we are unable to estimate the impact of this proposed rule change. 68 Table of Contents On September 30, 2014, CMS notified the Texas Health and Human Services Commission that it was deferring the federal matching funds (approximately $75 million) on Texas Medicaid UC payments made to providers in certain counties. A deferral results in CMS withholding funds from the state representing the federal portion of Medicaid payments the state has previously made to providers. A deferral goes into effect when CMS questions the basis for all or part of the amount of Medicaid payments made to certain providers, and remains in place subject to CMS’s final determination. Our Texas hospitals are not located in the geographic areas impacted by this deferral. On January 7, 2015, CMS removed the aforementioned deferral but indicated they will continue their review and assessment of the underlying UC financing arrangements as to ensure their compliance with the applicable federal regulations and eligibility for federal matching dollars. For state fiscal year 2015, Texas Medicaid will continue to operate under a CMS-approved Section 1115 five-year Medicaid waiver demonstration program. During the first five years of this program that started in state fiscal year 2012, the Texas Health and Human Services Commission (“THHSC”) transitioned away from UPL payments to new waiver incentive payment programs, UC payments and Delivery System Reform Incentive Payments (“DSRIP”). During the first year of transition, which commenced on October 1, 2011, THHSC made payments to Medicaid UPL recipient providers that received payments during the state’s prior fiscal year. During demonstration years two through five (October 1, 2012 through September 30, 2016), THHSC has, and will continue to, make incentive payments under the program after certain qualifying criteria are met by hospitals. Supplemental payments are also subject to an aggregate statewide caps based on CMS approved Medicaid waiver amounts. Texas Delivery System Reform Incentive Payments: In addition, the Texas Medicaid Section 1115 Waiver includes a DSRIP pool to incentivize hospitals and other providers to transform their service delivery practices to improve quality, health status, patient experience, coordination, and cost-effectiveness. DSRIP pool payments are incentive payments to hospitals and other providers that develop programs or strategies to enhance access to health care, increase the quality of care, the cost-effectiveness of care provided and the health of the patients and families served. In May, 2014, CMS formally approved specific DSRIP projects for certain of our hospitals for demonstration years 3 to 5 (our facilities did not materially participate in the DSRIP pool during demonstration years 1 or 2). DSRIP payments are contingent on the hospital meeting certain pre-determined milestones, metrics and clinical outcomes. Additionally, DSRIP payments are contingent on a governmental entity providing an IGT for the non-federal share component of the DSRIP payment. THHSC generally approves DSRIP reported metrics, milestones and clinical outcomes on a semi-annual basis in June and December. In connection with the DSRIP program and THHSC’s approval for specific programs at certain of our hospitals and availability of a governmental IGT, we recorded approximately $17 million of net revenues/benefit during 2014 applicable to the period of October 1, 2013 through September 30, 2014, net of provider taxes (of $8 million). Although we can provide no assurance that we will ultimately qualify for additional DSRIP revenues, subject to CMS’s approval and other conditions as outlined above, we estimate that we may be entitled to additional DSRIP net revenues/benefit of approximately $25 million during 2015, net of provider taxes (of $15 million). Texas and South Carolina Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital Payments: Hospitals that have an unusually large number of low-income patients (i.e., those with a Medicaid utilization rate of at least one standard deviation above the mean Medicaid utilization, or having a low income patient utilization rate exceeding 25%) are eligible to receive a disproportionate share hospital (“DSH”) adjustment. Congress established a national limit on DSH adjustments. Although this legislation and the resulting state broad-based provider taxes have affected the payments we receive under the Medicaid program, to date the net impact has not been materially adverse. Upon meeting certain conditions and serving a disproportionately high share of Texas’ and South Carolina’s low income patients, five of our facilities located in Texas and one facility located in South Carolina received additional reimbursement from each state’s DSH fund. The South Carolina and Texas DSH programs were renewed for each state’s 2014 DSH fiscal year (covering the period of October 1, 2013 through September 30, 69 Table of Contents 2014). In September, 2013, the THHSC published its 2013 final DSH rule that included changes that resulted in approximately $9 million of additional reimbursements to our acute care facilities located in Texas applicable to the state’s 2013 fiscal year (which were included in our 2013 pre-tax consolidated financial results). In connection with these DSH programs, included in our financial results was an aggregate of $49 million during 2014, $54 million during 2013 and $47 million during 2012. Assuming that the Texas and South Carolina programs are renewed for each state’s 2015 and 2016 fiscal years, at amounts similar to the 2014 fiscal year estimates, we estimate our aggregate reimbursements pursuant to these programs to be approximately $49 million during 2015. The Affordable Care Act provides for a significant reduction in Medicaid disproportionate share payments beginning in federal fiscal year 2016 (see below in Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform-Medicaid Revisions for additional disclosure). The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services is to determine the amount of Medicaid DSH payment cuts imposed on each state based on a defined methodology. As Medicaid DSH payments to states will be cut, consequently, payments to Medicaid-participating providers, including our hospitals in Texas and South Carolina, will likely be reduced in the coming years. Based on the September, 2013 CMS final rule, our Medicaid DSH payments in Texas and South Carolina could be reduced by approximately 4% in the 2016 federal fiscal year. This statutorily required reduction was originally scheduled to be implemented in federal fiscal year 2014 but was delayed to FFY 2017 by subsequent federal legislation. In May, 2013 the state of Texas enacted legislation that would increase the state’s contribution of the non-federal DSH share for the 2013 DSH year to $138 million as compared to the $100 million previously expected. Similarly, the state’s approved 2014-2015 General Appropriations bill (“Rider 86”) passed in May, 2013 authorized $160 million for 2014 and $140 million for 2015, respectively, for the non-federal DSH share. Furthermore, in June, 2014, THHSC proposed certain changes to DSH reimbursement methodology as a result of Rider 86. We expect the 2015 DSH year amounts, to be comparable to the 2014 DSH year amounts. Various Other State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs: We incur health-care related taxes (“Provider Taxes”) imposed by states in the form of a licensing fee, assessment or other mandatory payment which are related to: (i) healthcare items or services; (ii) the provision of, or the authority to provide, the health care items of services, or; (iii) the payment for the health care items or services. Such Provider Taxes are subject to various federal regulations that limit the scope and amount of the taxes that can be levied by states in order to secure federal matching funds as part of their respective state Medicaid programs. We derive a related Medicaid reimbursement benefit from assessed Provider Taxes in the form of Medicaid claims based payment increases and/or lump sum Medicaid supplemental payments. Including the impact of the programs in various states applicable to each year, and excluding the impact of various programs in Texas, as discussed above, and the Nevada SPA, as discussed below, we earned an aggregate net revenues/benefit from Medicaid supplemental payments of approximately $71 million during 2014, $69 million during 2013 and $58 million during 2012 (of which $12 million related to 2011), net of Provider Taxes (of $112 million in 2014, $74 million in 2013 and $93 million in 2012). We estimate that our aggregate net revenues/benefit from Provider Tax programs will approximate $70 million during 2015, net of Provider Taxes (of $111 million). These amounts include the impact of the CMS approved California provider tax and related Medicaid supplemental payment programs, which did not have a material impact on our operating results. The aggregate net benefit is earned from multiple states and therefore no particular state’s portion is individually material to our consolidated financial statements. However, Provider Taxes are governed by both federal and state laws and are subject to future legislative changes that, if reduced from current rates in several states, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated future results of operations. In Nevada, CMS approved a state plan amendment (“SPA”) in August, 2014 that implemented a hospital supplemental payment program retroactive to January 1, 2014 and effective to June 30, 2015. Included in our 2014 results of operations was approximately $10 million of net revenues earned in connection with this program. We estimate that our reimbursements pursuant to this program will approximate $7 million during 2015. 70 Table of Contents As outlined above, we receive substantial reimbursement from multiple states in connection with various supplemental Medicaid payment programs. Failure to renew these programs beyond their scheduled termination dates, failure of the public hospitals to provide the necessary IGTs for the states’ share of the DSH programs, failure of our hospitals that currently receive supplemental Medicaid revenues to qualify for future funds under these programs, or reductions in reimbursements, could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. HITECH Act: In July 2010, the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) published final regulations implementing the health information technology (“HIT”) provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (referred to as the “HITECH Act”). The final regulation defines the “meaningful use” of Electronic Health Records (“EHR”) and establishes the requirements for the Medicare and Medicaid EHR payment incentive programs. The final rule established an initial set of standards and certification criteria. The implementation period for these new Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments started in federal fiscal year 2011 and can end as late as 2016 for Medicare and 2021 for the state Medicaid programs. State Medicaid program participation in this federally funded incentive program is voluntary but all of the states in which our eligible hospitals operate have chosen to participate. Our acute care hospitals may qualify for these EHR incentive payments upon implementation of the EHR application assuming they meet the “meaningful use” criteria. The government’s ultimate goal is to promote more effective (quality) and efficient healthcare delivery through the use of technology to reduce the total cost of healthcare for all Americans and utilizing the cost savings to expand access to the healthcare system. Pursuant to HITECH Act regulations, hospitals that do not qualify as a meaningful user of EHR by 2015 are subject to a reduced market basket update to the IPPS standardized amount in 2015 and each subsequent fiscal year. We believe that all of our acute care hospitals have met the applicable meaningful use criteria and therefore are not subject to a reduced market basked update to the IPPS standardized amount in federal fiscal year 2015. However, under the HITECH Act, hospitals must continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria in each fiscal year or they will be subject to a market basket update reduction in a subsequent fiscal year. Failure of our acute care hospitals to continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria would have an adverse effect on our future net revenues and results of operations. Our 2014 consolidated results of operations includes an unfavorable pre-tax impact of approximately $8 million consisting of approximately $28 million of EHR incentive income less approximately $37 million of depreciation and amortization expense, plus approximately $1 million of net expense attributable to noncontrolling interests. Our 2013 consolidated results of operations includes a favorable pre-tax impact of approximately $19 million consisting of approximately $61 million of EHR incentive income less approximately $10 million of salaries, wages, benefits and other operating expenses, approximately $33 million of depreciation and amortization expense, plus approximately $1 million of net expense attributable to noncontrolling interests. Our 2012 consolidated results of operations includes a favorable pre-tax impact of approximately $3 million consisting of approximately $30 million of EHR incentive income less approximately $15 million of salaries, wages, benefits and other operating expenses, approximately $13 million of depreciation and amortization expense, plus approximately $1 million of net expense attributable to noncontrolling interests. Federal regulations require that Medicare EHR incentive payments be computed based on the Medicare cost report that begins in the federal fiscal period in which a hospital meets the applicable “meaningful use” requirements. Since the annual Medicare cost report periods for each of our acute care hospitals ends on December 31 st , we will recognize Medicare EHR incentive income for each hospital during the fourth quarter of the year in which the facility meets the “meaningful use” criteria and during the fourth quarter of each applicable subsequent year. Managed Care: A significant portion of our net patient revenues are generated from managed care companies, which include health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and managed Medicare (referred to as Medicare Part C or Medicare Advantage) and Medicaid programs. In general, we expect the percentage of our business from managed care programs to continue to grow. The consequent growth in 71 Table of Contents managed care networks and the resulting impact of these networks on the operating results of our facilities vary among the markets in which we operate. Typically, we receive lower payments per patient from managed care payors than we do from traditional indemnity insurers, however, during the past few years we have secured price increases from many of our commercial payors including managed care companies. Commercial Insurance: Our hospitals also provide services to individuals covered by private health care insurance. Private insurance carriers typically make direct payments to hospitals or, in some cases, reimburse their policy holders, based upon the particular hospital’s established charges and the particular coverage provided in the insurance policy. Private insurance reimbursement varies among payors and states and is generally based on contracts negotiated between the hospital and the payor. Commercial insurers are continuing efforts to limit the payments for hospital services by adopting discounted payment mechanisms, including predetermined payment or DRG-based payment systems, for more inpatient and outpatient services. To the extent that such efforts are successful and reduce the insurers’ reimbursement to hospitals and the costs of providing services to their beneficiaries, such reduced levels of reimbursement may have a negative impact on the operating results of our hospitals. Other Sources: Our hospitals provide services to individuals that do not have any form of health care coverage. Such patients are evaluated, at the time of service or shortly thereafter, for their ability to pay based upon federal and state poverty guidelines, qualifications for Medicaid or other state assistance programs, as well as our local hospitals’ indigent and charity care policy. Patients without health care coverage who do not qualify for Medicaid or indigent care write-offs are offered substantial discounts in an effort to settle their outstanding account balances. Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform: Given increasing budget deficits, the federal government and many states are currently considering additional ways to limit increases in levels of Medicare and Medicaid funding, which could also adversely affect future payments received by our hospitals. In addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon the federal government as a result of, among other things, the War on Terrorism, economic recovery stimulus packages, responses to natural disasters, the expansion of a Medicare drug benefit and the federal budget deficit in general may affect the availability of federal funds to provide additional relief in the future. We are unable to predict the effect of future policy changes on our operations. In March, 2010, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (H.R. 4872, P.L. 111-152), (the “Reconciliation Act”) and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (P.L. 111-148), (the “Affordable Care Act”), were enacted into law and created significant changes to health insurance coverage for U.S. citizens as well as material revisions to the federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs. Medicare, Medicaid and other health care industry changes which are scheduled to be implemented at various times during this decade are noted below. Implemented Medicare Reductions and Reforms: 72 Table of Contents Medicaid Revisions: $1.8 billion for FFY 2017 $4.7 billion for FFY 2018 $4.7 billion for FFY 2019 $4.7 billion for FFY 2020 $4.8 billion for FFY 2021 $5.0 billion for FFY 2022 $5.0 billion for FFY 2023 $4.4 billion for FFY 2024 Health Insurance Revisions: The Affordable Care Act seeks to increase competition among private health insurers by providing for transparent federal and state insurance exchanges. The Affordable Care Act also prohibits private insurers from adjusting insurance premiums based on health status, gender, or other specified factors. We cannot provide assurance that these provisions will not adversely affect the ability of private insurers to pay for services provided to insured patients, or that these changes will not have a negative material impact on our results of operations going forward. Value-Based Purchasing: There is a trend in the healthcare industry toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services. These value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. Governmental programs including Medicare and Medicaid currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition, Medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events. Many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. The Affordable Care Act contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing. The Affordable Care Act prohibits the use of federal funds under the Medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hospital acquired conditions (“HAC”). Beginning in FFY 2015, hospitals that fall into the top 25% of national risk-adjusted HAC rates for all hospitals in the previous year will receive a 1% reduction in their total Medicare payments. Hospitals with excessive readmissions for conditions designated by HHS will receive reduced payments for all inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excessive readmission standard. The Affordable Care Act also required HHS to implement a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services which became effective on October 1, 2012. The Affordable Care Act requires HHS to reduce inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by a percentage beginning at 1% in FFY 2013 and increasing by 73 Table of Contents 0.25% each fiscal year up to 2% in FFY 2017 and subsequent years. HHS will pool the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by HHS. HHS will determine the amount each hospital that meets or exceeds the quality performance standards will receive from the pool of dollars created by these payment reductions. In its fiscal year 2015 IPPS final rule, CMS will fund the value-based purchasing program by reducing base operating DRG payment amounts to participating hospitals by 1.5%. Readmission Reduction Program: In the Affordable Care Act, Congress also mandated implementation of the hospital readmission reduction program (“HRRP”). The HRRP assesses penalties on hospitals having excess readmission rates when compared to expected rates, effective for discharges beginning October 1, 2012. In the fiscal year 2013 IPPS final rule, CMS finalized certain policies with regard to payment under the HRRP, including which hospitals are subject to the HRRP, the methodology to calculate the hospital readmission payment adjustment factor, and what portion of the IPPS payment is used to calculate the readmission adjustment factor. In the fiscal year 2014 IPPS final rule, CMS finalized revisions to the three 30-day admission measures in the program—heart failure, myocardial infarction, and pneumonia—to exclude planned readmissions. Under the Affordable Care Act, beginning in fiscal year 2015, the maximum reduction in payments under the HRRP will increase from 2% to 3%. CMS will expand the program and add two readmission measures, one, acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and, two, patients admitted for elective total hip arthroplasty (THA) and total knee arthroplasty (TKA). In the fiscal year 2015 IPPS final rule, CMS added readmissions for coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgical procedures beginning in fiscal year 2017. We do not believe impact of HRRP for federal fiscal year 2014 had or will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Accountable Care Organizations: The Affordable Care Act requires HHS to establish a Medicare Shared Savings Program that promotes accountability and coordination of care through the creation of accountable care organizations (“ACOs”). The ACO program allows providers (including hospitals), physicians and other designated professionals and suppliers to voluntarily work together to invest in infrastructure and redesign delivery processes to achieve high quality and efficient delivery of services. The program is intended to produce savings as a result of improved quality and operational efficiency. ACOs that achieve quality performance standards established by HHS will be eligible to share in a portion of the amounts saved by the Medicare program. In addition to statutory and regulatory changes to the Medicare and each of the state Medicaid programs, our operations and reimbursement may be affected by administrative rulings, new or novel interpretations and determinations of existing laws and regulations, post-payment audits, requirements for utilization review and new governmental funding restrictions, all of which may materially increase or decrease program payments as well as affect the cost of providing services and the timing of payments to our facilities. The final determination of amounts we receive under the Medicare and Medicaid programs often takes many years, because of audits by the program representatives, providers’ rights of appeal and the application of numerous technical reimbursement provisions. We believe that we have made adequate provisions for such potential adjustments. Nevertheless, until final adjustments are made, certain issues remain unresolved and previously determined allowances could become either inadequate or more than ultimately required. Finally, we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. Reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results of operations. Other Operating Results Combined net revenues and income/losses before income taxes from our surgical hospitals, ambulatory surgery centers and radiation oncology centers did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations during 2014, 2013 or 2012. 74 Table of Contents Interest Expense Below is a schedule of our interest expense during 2014, 2013 and 2012 (amounts in thousands): As discussed below in Costs Related to Early Extinguishment of Debt , in connection with these financing transactions, our 2014 results of operations included a $36 million pre-tax charge incurred for the costs related to the extinguishment of debt. 75 Table of Contents Interest expense decreased $12 million during 2014 to $134 million as compared to $146 million during 2013. The decrease was due primarily to: (i) a $16 million decrease in aggregate interest expense on our revolving credit, demand notes, senior notes, term loan facilities and accounts receivable securitization program due primarily to a decrease in our average outstanding borrowings as well as a decrease in our aggregate average cost of borrowings pursuant to these facilities, as discussed below; (ii) a $6 million decrease in amortization and financing fees, resulting primarily from the write-off of certain deferred financing costs and original issue discounts in connection with the financing transactions during the third quarter of 2014, as discussed above, partially offset by; (iii) $5 million of capitalized interest recorded on major projects during 2013, and; (iv) a $5 million decrease in interest income, primarily related to the interest income received from Illinois during 2013 related to delayed cash remittances to us. The aggregate average outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit, demand notes, senior notes, term loan facilities and accounts receivable securitization program were approximately $3.2 billion during 2014 and approximately $3.5 billion during 2013. The average effective interest rate on these facilities, excluding the amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts and designated interest rate swap expense was 2.9% during 2014 and 3.1% during 2013. The average effective interest rate on these facilities, including amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts and designated interest rate swap expense was 3.9% during 2014 and 4.2% during 2013. Interest expense decreased $33 million during 2013 to $146 million as compared to $179 million during 2012. The decrease was due primarily to: (i) a $21 million decrease in aggregate interest expense on our revolving credit, demand notes, senior notes, term loan facilities and accounts receivable securitization program due primarily to a decrease in our aggregate average cost of borrowings pursuant to these facilities, as discussed below; (ii) a $5 million decrease in the amortization of financing fees, and; (iii) other combined net decrease of $7 million consisting primarily of interest earned by us on delayed cash remittances paid to us from Illinois. The aggregate average outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit, demand notes, senior notes, term loan facilities and accounts receivable securitization program were approximately $3.5 billion during each of 2013 and 2012. The average effective interest rate on these facilities, excluding the amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts and designated interest rate swap expense was 3.1% during 2013 and 3.7% during 2012. The average effective interest rate on these facilities, including amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts and designated interest rate swap expense was 4.2% during 2013 and 4.9% during 2012. Costs Related to Early Extinguishment of Debt As discussed above, in connection with various financing transactions completed during 2014, as discussed below in Capital Resources-Credit Facilities and Outstanding Debt Securities, our 2014 results of operations include a $36 million pre-tax charge incurred for the costs related to the extinguishment of debt. This charge consisted of the write-off of deferred charges ($20 million) and original issue discount on the extinguished debt ($5 million) as well as the make-whole premium paid ($11 million) on the early redemption of the $250 million, 7.00% senior unsecured notes. During 2012, in connection with the extinguishment of a portion of our previously 76 Table of Contents outstanding Term Loan-B facility, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $29 million to write-off the related portion of the Term Loan-B deferred financing costs. There were no costs related to early extinguishment of debt incurred during 2013. Transaction Costs There were no material transaction fees incurred in 2014 or 2013. During 2012, we incurred approximately $6 million of transaction costs in connection with our acquisition of 9 behavioral health facilities acquired from Ascend Health Corporation in October, 2012. These costs consisted primarily of legal, investment banking and consulting fees. Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rates The effective tax rates, as calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by income before income taxes, were as follows for each of the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 (dollar amounts in thousands): Outside owners hold various noncontrolling, minority ownership interests in seven of our acute care facilities and one behavioral health care facility. Each of these facilities are owned and operated by limited liability companies (“LLC”) or limited partnerships (“LP”). As a result, since there is no income tax liability incurred at the LLC/LP level (since it passes through to the members/partners), the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests does not include any income tax provision/benefit. When computing the provision for income taxes, as reflected on our consolidated statements of income, the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is deducted from income before income taxes since it represents the third-party members’/partners’ share of the income generated by the joint-venture entities. In addition to providing the effective tax rates, as indicated above (as calculated from dividing the provision for income taxes by the income before income taxes as reflected on the consolidated statements of income), we believe it is helpful to our investors that we also provide our effective tax rate as calculated after giving effect to the portion of our pre-tax income that is attributable to the third-party members/partners. The effective tax rates, as calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by the difference in income before income taxes, minus net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, were as follows for each of the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 (dollar amounts in thousands): The impact of the discrete tax items did not have a material impact on our provision for income taxes during 2014, 2013 or 2012. The decrease in the effective tax rate during 2014, as compared to 2013 and 2012, was due primarily to: (i) a decrease in our blended effective state income tax rate during 2014; (ii) the income tax 77 Table of Contents provision recorded during 2013 on the sale of Peak Behavioral Health Services which was divested in May, 2013 (the tax basis gain realized on the sale of Peak Behavioral Health Services exceeded the gain recorded pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles), and; (iii) a decrease to our federal income tax provision relating to 2013 that was recorded during 2014. We consider the undistributed earnings of certain of our foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2014, to be indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no U.S. income taxes have been provided thereon. As of December 31, 2014, the amount of cash associated with indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings was approximately $12 million. Discontinued Operations There were no material divestitures during 2014. In connection with the receipt of antitrust clearance from the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) in connection with our acquisition of Ascend Health Corporation in October of 2012, we agreed to certain conditions, including the divestiture of Peak Behavioral Health Services (“Peak”), a 104-bed behavioral health care facility located in Santa Teresa, New Mexico. The divestiture of Peak was completed during the second quarter of 2013 for total cash proceeds of approximately $24 million resulting in a pre-tax gain of approximately $3 million which is included in our 2013 consolidated financial statements. In October of 2012, we completed the divestiture of Auburn Regional Medical Center (“Auburn”), a 159-bed acute care hospital located in Auburn, Washington, for total cash proceeds of approximately $93 million. This divestiture resulted in a pre-tax gain of $26 million which was included in our 2012 consolidated financial statements. In connection with the receipt of antitrust clearance from the FTC in connection with our acquisition of PSI in November, 2010, we agreed to divest three former PSI facilities (which were divested during 2011) as well as one of our legacy behavioral health facilities in Puerto Rico, which we divested in 2012. The following table shows the results of operations for Auburn and Peak, on a combined basis, which were reflected as discontinued operations during our period of ownership for each of the years presented herein (amounts in thousands). Since the aggregate income from discontinued operations before income tax expense for these facilities is not material to our consolidated financial statements, it is included as a reduction to other operating expenses. Effects of Inflation and Seasonality Seasonality —Our acute care services business is typically seasonal, with higher patient volumes and net patient service revenue in the first and fourth quarters of the year. This seasonality occurs because, generally, more people become ill during the winter months, which results in significant increases in the number of patients treated in our hospitals during those months. Inflation —Inflation has not had a material impact on our results of operations over the last three years. However, since the healthcare industry is very labor intensive and salaries and benefits are subject to inflationary 78 Table of Contents pressures, as are supply and other costs, we cannot predict the impact that future economic conditions may have on our ability to contain future expense increases. Our ability to pass on increased costs associated with providing healthcare to Medicare and Medicaid patients is limited due to various federal, state and local laws which have been enacted that, in certain cases, limit our ability to increase prices. We believe, however, that through adherence to cost containment policies, labor management and reasonable price increases, the effects of inflation on future operating margins should be manageable. Liquidity Year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to December 31, 2013: Net cash provided by operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.04 billion during 2014 as compared to $884 million during 2013. The net increase of $152 million was primarily attributable to the following: Days sales outstanding (“DSO”): Our DSO are calculated by dividing our net revenue by the number of days in the year. The result is divided into the accounts receivable balance the end of the year. Our DSO were 58 days at December 31, 2014 and 56 days at each of December 31, 2013 and 2012. Net cash used in investing activities Net cash used in investing activities was $833 million during 2014 and $383 million during 2013. 2014: The $833 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2014 consisted of $431 million spent/reserved related to the acquisition of businesses and property, $391 million spent on capital expenditures, $13 million spent in connection with the purchase and implementation of an electronic health records application (“EHR”), $12 million spent to increase investments of insurance subsidiary, net of $15 million received from the sale of assets and businesses. 2014 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses: During 2014 we spent $431 million to: 79 Table of Contents 2014 Capital Expenditures: During 2014 we spent $391 million to finance capital expenditures including capital expenditures for equipment, renovations and new projects at various existing facilities, including additional capacity added to certain of our behavioral health facilities that have operated near full capacity. 2014 Divestiture of Assets and Businesses: During 2014 we received $15 million in connection with the divestiture of a non-operating investment (during the first quarter) and the real property of a closed behavioral health facility (during the second quarter). 2013: The $383 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2013 consisted of $358 million spent on capital expenditures, $13 million spent on the acquisition of property and businesses, $37 million received from the sale of assets and businesses and $50 million spent in connection with the purchase and implementation of an EHR application. 2013 Capital Expenditures: During 2013, we spent $358 million to finance capital expenditures including the construction costs related to: (i) the newly constructed Temecula Valley Hospital, a 140-bed acute care facility located in Temecula, California, that was completed and opened in October, 2013; (ii) the construction costs related to Austin Oaks Hospital, a newly constructed, 80-bed behavioral health facility located in Austin, Texas, that was completed and opened during the second quarter of 2013, and; (iii) capital expenditures related to equipment renovations and new projects at various existing facilities. 2013 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses: During 2013, we spent $13 million for the purchase of real property located in Pennsylvania, Nevada and Arizona. 2013 Divestiture of Assets and Businesses: During 2013, we received $37 million in connection with the divestiture of Peak Behavioral Health Services and certain other assets and real property including three previously closed behavioral health care facilities. Net cash used in financing activities Net cash used in financing activities was $187 million during 2014 and $507 million during 2013. 80 Table of Contents 2014: The $187 million of net cash used in financing activities during 2014 consisted of the following: 2013: The $507 million of net cash used in financing activities consisted of the following: 81 Table of Contents Year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to December 31, 2012: Net cash provided by operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $884 million during 2013 and $799 million during 2012. The net increase of $85 million was primarily attributable to the following: Net cash used in investing activities Net cash used in investing activities was $383 million during 2013 as compared to $790 million during 2012. The factors contributing to the $383 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2013 are detailed above. 2012: The $790 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2012 consisted of $363 million spent on capital expenditures, $528 million spent on acquisitions, $149 million received from the sale of assets and businesses, $54 million spent in connection with the purchase and implementation of EHR applications, and $6 million received from a deposit returned to us in connection with the termination of an agreement to purchase an acute care hospital located in Texas. 2012 Capital Expenditures: During 2012, we spent $363 million to finance capital expenditures, including the following: (i) construction costs related to multiple expansion and renovation projects at various existing acute care hospitals and behavioral health facilities; (ii) construction costs related to the newly constructed Temecula Valley Hospital, and; (iii) capital expenditures for equipment at various existing facilities. 2012 Acquisitions of Assets and Businesses: During 2012, we spent $528 million to acquire the following assets and businesses: 82 Table of Contents 2012 Divestiture of Assets and Businesses: During 2012, we received $149 million from the divestiture of assets and businesses, including the following: Net cash used in/provided by financing activities Net cash used in financing activities was $507 million during 2013 and $27 million during 2012. The factors contributing to the $507 million of net cash used in financing activities during 2013 are detailed above. 2012: The $27 million of net cash used in financing activities consisted of the following: 2015 Expected Capital Expenditures: During 2015, we expect to spend approximately $375 million to $400 million on capital expenditures which includes expenditures for capital equipment, renovations, new projects at existing hospitals and construction of new facilities. Approximately $155 million of our 2015 expected capital expenditures relates to completion of projects that are in progress as of December 31, 2014. We believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. We expect to finance all capital expenditures and acquisitions with internally generated funds and/or additional funds, as discussed below. 83 Table of Contents Capital Resources Credit Facilities and Outstanding Debt Securities During the third quarter of 2014, we completed the following financing transactions: In connection with these transactions, our 2014 results of operations included a $36 million pre-tax charge incurred for the costs related to the extinguishment of debt. This charge consisted of the write-off of deferred charges ($20 million) and original issue discount on the extinguished debt ($5 million) as well as the make-whole premium paid ($11 million) on the early redemption of the $250 million, 7.00% senior unsecured notes. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at either (1) the ABR rate which is defined as the rate per annum equal to, at our election: the greatest of (a) the lender’s prime rate, (b) the weighted average of the federal funds rate, plus 0.5% and (c) one month LIBOR rate plus 1%, in each case, plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 0.50% to 1.25% for revolving credit and term loan-A borrowings, or (2) the one, two, three or six month LIBOR rate (at our election), plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 1.50% to 2.25% for revolving credit and term loan-A borrowings. As of December 31, 2014, the applicable margins were 0.50% for ABR-based loans, 1.50% for LIBOR-based loans under the revolving credit and term loan-A facilities. As of December 31, 2014, we had $140 million of outstanding borrowings pursuant to the terms of our $800 million revolving credit facility and we had $640 million of available borrowing capacity, net of $500,000 of outstanding borrowings pursuant to a short-term, on-demand credit facility and $20 million of outstanding letters of credit. The revolving credit facility includes a $125 million sub-limit for letters of credit. The Credit Agreement is secured by certain assets of the Company and our material subsidiaries and guaranteed by our material subsidiaries. Pursuant to the terms of the Fourth Amendment to our Credit Agreement, term loan-A quarterly installment payments of approximately: (i) $11 million commenced during the fourth quarter of 2014 and are scheduled to continue through September, 2016, and; (ii) $22 million are scheduled from the fourth quarter of 2016 through June, 2019. Prior to commencement of the Fourth Amendment, we made scheduled principal payments of $36 million on the term loan-A and term loan A2 facilities during 2014 and $72 million during 2013. 84 Table of Contents As discussed above, on August 1, 2014, our accounts receivable securitization program (“Securitization”), with a group of conduit lenders and liquidity banks which is scheduled to mature in October, 2016, was amended to increase the borrowing capacity to $360 million from $275 million. Substantially all of the patient-related accounts receivable of our acute care hospitals (“Receivables”) serve as collateral for the outstanding borrowings. We have accounted for this Securitization as borrowings. We maintain effective control over the Receivables since, pursuant to the terms of the Securitization, the Receivables are sold from certain of our subsidiaries to special purpose entities that are wholly-owned by us. The Receivables, however, are owned by the special purpose entities, can be used only to satisfy the debts of the wholly-owned special purpose entities, and thus are not available to us except through our ownership interest in the special purpose entities. The wholly-owned special purpose entities use the Receivables to collateralize the loans obtained from the group of third-party conduit lenders and liquidity banks. The group of third-party conduit lenders and liquidity banks do not have recourse to us beyond the assets of the wholly-owned special purpose entities that securitize the loans. At December 31, 2014, we had $330 million of outstanding borrowings and $30 million of additional capacity pursuant to the terms of our accounts receivable securitization program. On August 7, 2014, we issued $300 million aggregate principal amount of 3.750% Senior Secured Notes due 2019 (the “2019 Notes”) and $300 million aggregate principal amount of 4.750% Senior Secured Notes due 2022 (the “2022 Notes”, and together with the 2019 Notes, the “New Senior Secured Notes”). The New Senior Secured Notes were offered only to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A and to non-U.S. persons outside the United States in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). The New Senior Secured Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. Interest is payable on the New Senior Secured Notes on February 1 and August 1 of each year to the holders of record at the close of business on the January 15 and July 15 immediately preceding the related interest payment dates, commencing on February 1, 2015 until the maturity date of August 1, 2019 for the 2019 Notes and August 1, 2022 for the 2022 Notes. On June 30, 2006, we issued $250 million of senior secured notes which have a 7.125% coupon rate and mature on June 30, 2016 (the “7.125% Notes”). Interest on the 7.125% Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on June 30th and December 30th of each year. In June, 2008, we issued an additional $150 million of 7.125% Notes which formed a single series with the original 7.125% Notes issued in June, 2006. Other than their date of issuance and initial price to the public, the terms of the 7.125% Notes issued in June, 2008 are identical to and trade interchangeably with, the 7.125% Notes which were originally issued in June, 2006. On July 31, 2014, we redeemed the $250 million, 7.00% senior unsecured notes (the “Unsecured Notes”), which were scheduled to mature on October 1, 2018, at a redemption price equal to 104.56% of the principal amount of the Unsecured Notes resulting in a make-whole premium payment of approximately $11 million. The Unsecured Notes were issued on September 29, 2010 and registered in April, 2011. Interest on the Unsecured Note was payable semiannually in arrears on April 1st and October 1st of each year. In connection with entering into the previous Credit Agreement on November 15, 2010, and in accordance with the Indenture dated January 20, 2000 governing the rights of our existing notes, we entered into a supplemental indenture pursuant to which our 7.125% Notes (due in 2016) were equally and ratably secured with the lenders under the Credit Agreement with respect to the collateral for so long as the lenders under the Credit Agreement are so secured. The average amounts outstanding during each of years 2014, 2013 and 2012 under the current and prior Credit Agreements, demand notes and accounts receivable securitization programs was $2.4 billion, $2.9 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, with corresponding interest rates of 1.8%, 2.2% and 2.9%, respectively, including commitment and facility fees. The maximum amounts outstanding at any month-end were $2.65 billion in 2014, $3.00 billion in 2013 and $3.06 billion in 2012. The effective interest rate on our current and prior Credit Agreements, accounts receivable securitization programs, and demand notes, which includes the respective interest expense, commitment and facility fees, designated interest rate swaps expense and amortization of deferred financing costs and original issue discounts, was 3.2% in 2014, 3.6% in 2013 and 4.5% in 2012. 85 Table of Contents Our Credit Agreement includes a material adverse change clause that must be represented at each draw. The Credit Agreement contains covenants that include a limitation on sales of assets, mergers, change of ownership, liens and indebtedness, transactions with affiliates, dividends and stock repurchases; and requires compliance with financial covenants including maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios. We are in compliance with all required covenants as of December 31, 2014. The carrying value of our debt at December 31, 2014 and 2013 was $3.3 billion. The fair values of our debt at December 31, 2014 and 2013 were $3.3 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively. The fair value of our debt was computed based upon quotes received from financial institutions. We consider these to be “level 2” in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with debt instruments. Our total debt as a percentage of total capitalization was 47% at December 31, 2014 and 51% at December 31, 2013. We expect to finance all capital expenditures and acquisitions, pay dividends and potentially repurchase shares of our common stock utilizing internally generated and additional funds. Additional funds may be obtained through: (i) the issuance of equity; (ii) borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility or through refinancing the existing revolving credit agreement, and/or; (iii) the issuance of other long-term debt. We believe that our operating cash flows, cash and cash equivalents, available borrowing capacity under our $800 million revolving credit facility and $360 million accounts receivable securitization program, as well as access to the capital markets, provide us with sufficient capital resources to fund our operating, investing and financing requirements for the next twelve months. However, in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. Our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2014 we were party to certain off balance sheet arrangements consisting of standby letters of credit and surety bonds which totaled $94 million consisting of: (i) $73 million related to our self-insurance programs, and; (ii) $21 million of other debt and public utility guarantees. Obligations under operating leases for real property, real property master leases and equipment amount to $335 million as of December 31, 2014. The real property master leases are leases for buildings on or near hospital property for which we guarantee a certain level of rental income. We sublease space in these buildings and any amounts received from these subleases are offset against the expense. In addition, we lease three hospital facilities from the Trust with terms expiring in 2016. These leases contain up to three 5-year renewal options. We also lease the real property of certain facilities as indicated in