" of Part I, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial condition and Results of Operations” of Part II, and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 and may also be described from time to time in our future reports filed with the SEC. You should not rely on our forward-looking statements. The Company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Item 1.A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You are cautioned that the risk factors discussed below are not exhaustive. Risks Related to our Business, Brand, Industry and Operations We face risks regarding our ability to compete in the pest control industry in the future. We operate in a highly competitive industry with fragmented markets and low barriers to entry. Our revenues and earnings are affected by changes in competitors’ services, markets, and prices and general economic issues. We compete with other large pest control companies, as well as numerous smaller pest control companies, for a finite number of customers. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market areas that we serve are quality and speed of service, customer proximity, customer satisfaction, brand awareness and reputation, terms of guarantees, technical proficiency and price. Although we believe that our customer experience and quality service are excellent, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to maintain our competitive position in the future. We may not be able to identify, complete or successfully integrate acquisitions or guarantee that any acquisitions will achieve the anticipated financial benefits. Acquisitions have been and may continue to be an important element of our business strategy. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to identify and acquire acceptable acquisition targets on terms favorable to us in the future, that we will receive necessary regulatory approvals, or that any acquisitions will achieve the anticipated financial benefits. Our inability to achieve the anticipated financial benefits from any acquisition transactions may not be realized due to any number of factors, including, but not limited to, unsuccessful integration efforts, unexpected or underestimated liabilities or increased costs, fees, expenses and charges related to such transactions. Such adverse events could result in a decrease in the estimated fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets established as a result of such transactions, triggering an impairment. Our business depends on our strong brands and failing to maintain and enhance our brands and develop a positive client reputation and experience could hurt our ability to retain and expand our base of customers. Our strong brands, such as Orkin, HomeTeam Pest Defense, Clark Pest Control, Northwest Exterminating, Fox Pest Control, Trutech, Western Pest Services, The Industrial Fumigant Company (IFC), Waltham Services, Okolona Pest Control (OPC), and Critter Control, have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing our brands increases our ability to enter new markets and launch new and innovative services that better serve the needs of our customers. Our brands may be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including, among others, reputational issues, product/technical failures, and customer experience. We continue to develop strategies and innovative tools to gain a deeper understanding of customer acquisition and retention in order to more effectively expand and retain our customer base. Maintaining and enhancing our brands will depend largely on our brands’ ability to remain service leaders and continue to provide high-quality pest control services that are truly beneficial and play a meaningful role in people’s lives. 12 Table of Contents Labor shortages, our ability to attract and retain skilled workers, and increased labor costs may impair growth potential and profitability. Our ability to remain productive and profitable will depend substantially on our ability to compete with other pest control and service companies to attract, adequately train, and retain skilled workers and key employees (including executive officers), create leadership opportunities, and successfully implement diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives. Our ability to expand our operations is in part impacted by our ability to increase our labor force. The demand for employees is high, and the supply is limited. Ongoing labor shortages could negatively affect our ability to efficiently operate at full capacity or lead to increased costs, such as increased overtime to meet demand and increased wage rates to attract and retain employees. A significant increase in the wages paid and benefits offered by competing employers could also result in a reduction in our labor force, increases in our labor costs, or both. Prolonged labor shortages, increased turnover or labor inflation could diminish our profitability and impair our growth potential. In addition, decisions and rules by the National Labor Relations Board, including “expedited elections” and restrictions on appeals, could lead to increased organizing activities at our subsidiaries. If these labor organizing activities are successful, it could further increase labor costs, decrease operating efficiency and productivity in the future, or otherwise disrupt or negatively impact our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. We may experience difficulties integrating, streamlining and optimizing our information technology (“IT”) systems and processes. We have invested in, and expect to continue to invest in, new systems and technology to implement new or improve existing business capabilities and streamline business processes, financial reporting, and acquisition integration. Many of these efforts impact customers, suppliers, employees, and others, and any disruption or failure could adversely affect our business and operations. We may experience significant delays, increased costs, and other difficulties, which could adversely affect our ability to process work orders, send invoices, track, and collect payments, fulfill contractual obligations, or otherwise operate our business in compliance with laws. In addition, our efforts to centralize various business processes within our organization in connection with the implementations may disrupt operations. We may also experience difficulties, costs or delays in migrating acquired businesses to our systems, processes, and technologies. Distributor or supply chain issues may result in product shortages or disruptions to our business. We have a complex global network of distributors and suppliers that has expanded to meet increased customer demand and may, in the future, further evolve in response to market conditions. Although the majority of the products we use are generally available from multiple sources, and alternatives have been generally available in the event of disruption in the past, we could experience material disruptions in production, transportation, and other supply chain issues on specific products, which could result in out-of-stock conditions, and our results of operations and relationships with customers could be adversely affected (a) if new or existing distributors or suppliers are unable to meet any standards that we set or that are set by government or industry regulations or customers, (b) if we are unable to contract with distributors or suppliers at the quantity, quality and price levels needed for our business, or (c) if any of our key distributors or suppliers has shipping disruptions or becomes insolvent, ceases or significantly reduces its operations or experiences financial distress. Our inability to fully or substantially meet customer demand due to distributor or supply chain issues could result in, among other things, unmet consumer demand leading to reduced preference for our products or services in the future, customers purchasing services from competitors as a result of such shortage of products, strained customer relationships, termination of customer contracts, additional competition and new entrants into the market, and loss of potential sales and revenue. Climate change and unfavorable weather conditions could adversely impact our financial results. Our operations are directly impacted by the weather conditions worldwide, including catastrophic events, natural disasters and potential impacts from climate change. Our business is also affected by extreme weather such as hurricanes which can impact our ability to operate as well as drought which can greatly reduce the pest population for extended periods. Climate change continues to receive increasing global attention. The possible effects of climate change could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing storm patterns and intensities, changing temperature levels and changes in legislation, regulation, and international accords, all of which could adversely impact our costs and business operations. Our business is also affected by seasonality associated with our pest and termite control services. The increase in pest 13 Table of Contents presence and activity, as well as the metamorphosis of termites in the spring and summer (the occurrence of which is determined by the timing of the change in seasons), has historically resulted in an increase in the revenue and income of our pest and termite control operations during such periods. We may not successfully execute our business strategies, including achieving our growth objectives. We may not be able to fully implement our business strategies or realize, in whole or in part within the expected time frames, the anticipated benefits of various growth or other initiatives. Our ability to implement our business strategy may be adversely affected by factors that we cannot foresee currently, such as unanticipated costs and expenses, global health crises, technological change, recession and economic slowdown, the level of interest rates, foreign exchange risks, failure to integrate acquisitions, or a decline in the effectiveness of our marketing (including digital marketing). In addition, we will incur certain costs to achieve efficiency improvements, systems implementations, and growth in our business, and we may not meet anticipated implementation timetables or stay within budgeted costs. As these initiatives are implemented, we may not fully achieve the desired results, including but not limited to, expected cost savings or growth rates, and these initiatives may adversely impact customer retention or our operations. Also, our business strategies may change in light of our ability to implement new business initiatives, competitive pressures, economic uncertainties or developments or other factors. Expanding into international markets presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations may not be successful. An element of our business includes further expansion in international markets. Our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by political, economic and social conditions beyond our control and geopolitical conflicts, such as the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the conflict in Gaza. Also, we may be adversely affected by local laws and customs and legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with applicable export, anti-corruption and currency laws and regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local distributors and suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences from changes in tax laws or the unfavorable resolution of tax assessments or audits, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors could take actions that could harm our business. Our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors are contractually obligated to operate their businesses in accordance with the standards set forth in our agreements with them and applicable laws and regulations. Each of our brands that are franchised also provides training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors are independent third parties that we do not control, and who own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their businesses, and the ultimate success of any business operation rests with the business owner. If franchisees do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required standards, royalty payments owed to us will be adversely affected and our brands’ image and reputation could be harmed. Similarly, if franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors do not successfully operate their businesses in a manner consistent with required laws, standards and regulations, we could be subject to claims from regulators or legal claims for the actions or omissions of such third-party franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors. In addition, our relationship with our franchisees, subcontractors, and vendors could become strained (including resulting in litigation) as we impose new standards or assert more rigorous enforcement practices of the existing required standards. Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Privacy Compliance and Business Disruptions The Company, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, third-party business partners and service providers have been subject to cybersecurity incidents in the past and could be the targets of future attacks that could result in disruption to our business operations, economic and reputational damage, and possible fines, penalties and private litigation, if there is unauthorized access to or unintentional distribution of personal, financial, proprietary, confidential, or other protected data or information the Company is entrusted to keep about its customers, employees, business practices, or third parties, or there are significant operational disruptions that result from a cybersecurity incident. Our internal IT systems contain certain personal, financial, health, or other protected and confidential information that is entrusted to us by our customers and employees. Our IT systems also contain our and our wholly-owned subsidiaries’ 14 Table of Contents proprietary and other confidential information related to our business, such as business plans, customer lists, pricing, and service development initiatives. From time to time, we have integration with new IT systems due to organic growth and acquisitions. In addition, we grant third-party business partners and service providers access to confidential information in order to facilitate business operations and administer employee benefits. Employees, third-party business partners, and service providers can knowingly or unknowingly disseminate such information or serve as an entry point for bad actors to access such information. The Company has assigned Board responsibility for oversight of cybersecurity risk to the Audit Committee, which monitors the cybersecurity risk management and cyber control functions, including external security audits, and receives periodic updates from experienced senior management knowledgeable about assessing and managing cyber risks, including, as appropriate, updates on the prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation of cyber incidents. We continue to evaluate and modify our systems and protocols for data security compliance purposes, and such standards may change from time to time. We have processes in place to oversee and identify cybersecurity risks and vulnerability related to certain third-party business partners, vendors, and service providers. We have processes to address risks of a key service provider experiencing a significant cybersecurity incident that renders their services unavailable, but those processes may not cover all business losses. Activities by bad actors, changes in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries, cloud applications, changes in multi-jurisdictional regulations, and other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of our systems. Any compromises, breaches, application errors or human mistakes related to our systems or failures to comply with applicable standards could not only disrupt our financial operations, including our customers’ ability to pay for our services and products by credit card or their willingness to purchase our services and products, but could also result in violations of applicable laws, regulations, orders, industry standards or agreements and subject us to costs, penalties and liabilities. A breach of data security or failure to comply with rigorous multi-jurisdictional consumer privacy requirements could expose us to customer litigation, regulatory actions and costs related to the reporting and handling of such a violation or breach. Furthermore, while we maintain cybersecurity insurance, our insurance may not cover all liabilities incurred due to a security breach or incident. Risks Related to Legal, Regulatory and Risk Management Matters In the countries in which we operate, our business is subject to various federal, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations pertaining to environmental, public health and safety matters, including those related to the pest control industry, and any noncompliance with, changes to, or increased enforcement of such laws, could significantly impact our business. Our business is subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations pertaining to environmental, public health and safety matters, including those related to the pest control industry. Among other things, these laws also govern the use, storage, treatment, disposal, transportation and management of certain pesticides and hazardous substances and waste and regulate the emission or discharge of materials into the environment. In addition, the use of certain pesticide products is also regulated by various federal, state, provincial and local environmental and public health agencies. These regulations may also apply to our third-party suppliers. Penalties for noncompliance with these laws may include criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including, but not limited to, cancellation of licenses, fines, and other corrective actions. Noncompliance with, changes in, expanded enforcement of, or adoption of new laws and regulations governing hazardous waste disposal and other environmental matters, could result in operational changes and increased costs. We are subject to regulation in the countries in which we operate related to employment laws, and noncompliance could lead to fines or legal proceedings. We are subject to a myriad of complex laws and regulations in the various federal, state, provincial, regional, and local governments in the countries in which we operate related to employees, including, but not limited to wage and hour laws, anti-discrimination laws, immigration, pension benefit plans, ERISA laws, and retirement benefits. Any failure to comply with such applicable laws or regulations could result in fines or legal proceedings. New or proposed regulation regarding climate change could have uncertain impacts on our business. Climate change has been the subject of increased focus by various governmental authorities and regulators around the world. In particular, the US is considering the enactment of legislative and regulatory proposals that would impose requirements on greenhouse gas emissions. Such laws, if enacted, are likely to impact our business in a number of ways. For example, we use gasoline and electricity in conducting our operations. Increased government regulations to limit 15 Table of Contents carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions may result in increased compliance costs and legislation or regulation affecting energy inputs, which could materially affect our profitability. Further the SEC has proposed rule amendments that would implement a framework for reporting of climate-related risks and create new climate-related disclosure obligations for all registrants, including us. Compliance with any new or more stringent laws or requirements, or stricter interpretations of existing laws, could require additional expenditures by us or our suppliers. We cannot predict how the proposed rules, if finalized, or any future legislation or regulations pertaining to climate change, will ultimately affect our business. Termite claims and lawsuits related thereto could increase our legal expenses. From time to time, we are subject to claims brought by our customers for termite protection services, generally based on alleged termite damage to the structure(s) covered by our contracts with those customers. In some instances of these claims, the customer may initiate litigation or arbitration proceedings or these matters could be brought as a class action against us or one of our brands. Our safety and risk management programs may not have the intended effect of reducing our liability for employee-work related injuries, third party-liability claims or property loss. Our auto or other safety management system and performance measures are critical to our reputation and results of operation. We attempt to mitigate risks relating to employee work-related injuries, automobile collision, third-party liability, or property loss through the implementation of company-wide safety management programs designed to focus on prevention and decrease the occurrence of incidents or events that may occur. We expect that any such decreases could also have the effect of stabilizing or reducing our insurance costs. However, incidents involving injury or property loss may be caused by multiple potential factors, a significant number of which are beyond our control. Therefore, there is no guarantee that our safety and risk management and safety programs will have the desired effect of avoiding or controlling all potential expenses and liability exposure. Additionally, we retain certain risks related to general liability, workers’ compensation, and auto liability. The accruals and reserves we hold are based on estimates that involve a degree of judgment and are inherently variable and could be overestimated or insufficient. If actual claims exceed our estimates, our operating results could be materially affected, and our ability to take timely corrective actions to limit future costs may be limited. Further, some of our commercial customers require that we meet certain safety criteria to be eligible to provide service and bid for contracts, and many contracts provide for automatic termination or forfeiture of some or all of our contract fees or profit in the event we fail to meet certain measures. Accordingly, if we fail to maintain adequate safety standards, we could experience reduced profitability or the loss of projects or clients. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all significant risk exposures and our accruals and reserves for uninsured claims are variable. We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to our business and the services we provide. We maintain commercial liability insurance that extends to products liability. In addition, we also maintain other insurance and other traditional risk transfer tools to respond to certain types of liabilities and risks. However, such tools are subject to terms such as deductibles, retentions, limits and policy exclusions, as well as risk of denial of coverage, default or insolvency. If we experience unexpected or uncovered losses, or if any of our insurance policies are terminated for any reason or are not effective in mitigating our risks, we may incur losses that are not covered or that exceed our coverage limits. In addition, there can be no assurance that the types or levels of coverage maintained are adequate to cover these potential significant and catastrophic risks. Further, we may not be able to continue to maintain our existing insurance coverage or obtain comparable or additional insurance coverage at a reasonable cost in the event a significant product or service claim arises. We have been and may in the future be subject to lawsuits, investigations and other proceedings which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the normal course of business, we have been and may in the future be involved in various claims, contractual disputes, investigations, arbitration and litigation, including (1) claims that our acts, omissions, services or vehicles caused damage or injury, (2) claims that our services did not achieve the desired results, (3) claims related to acquisitions, (4) claims related to violations of antitrust laws or consumer protection laws, (4) claims related to allegations by federal, state or local authorities, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice, of violations of regulations or statutes, (5) claims related to federal securities laws, (6) claims related to employment law 16 Table of Contents violations, (7) claims related to environmental matters, and (8) claims related to additional laws and regulations. These claims, proceedings or litigation, either alone or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Certain Intellectual Property Rights Our brand recognition or reputation could be impacted if we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights that are material to our business. Our ability to compete effectively depends in part on our rights to service marks, trademarks, trade names and other intellectual property rights we own or license. Although we have sought to register or protect many of our marks either in the United States or in the countries in which they are or may be used, we have not sought to protect our marks in every country. Furthermore, because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent and other intellectual property or proprietary rights laws, we may not receive the same protection in other countries as we would in the United States. If we are unable to protect our proprietary information and brand names, we could suffer a material adverse effect to our reputation and business. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information, or to defend against claims by third parties that our products, services or activities infringe their intellectual property rights. Risks Related to Public Health Crises The effects of a pandemic or other major public health concern, could materially impact our business. The impact of a pandemic or other major public health concerns, including changes in consumer behavior and discretionary spending, market downturns, and restrictions on business and individual activities, could create significant volatility in the global economy. Additionally, government or regulatory responses to pandemics or other public health concerns, such as mandatory lockdowns, vaccine mandates or other restrictions on operations, could negatively impact our business. The ultimate impact of a pandemic or other major public health concern also depends on events beyond our knowledge or control, including the duration and severity of such pandemics and other major public health concerns, and related remedial or containment measures taken by parties other than us to respond to them. We are unable to completely predict the full impact that a pandemic, or other major public health concern will have on our business due to numerous uncertainties. In addition, our compliance with remedial or containment measures could impact our day-to-day operations and could disrupt our business and operations, as well as that of our customers and suppliers, for an indefinite period of time. Furthermore, labor force availability may be impaired due to exposure, reluctance to comply with governmental, regulatory or contractual mandates, or other restrictions, which could negatively affect our operating costs and profitability or negatively impact our ability to provide quality services. Risks Related to Market Conditions Adverse economic conditions, including inflation and restrictions in customer discretionary expenditures, increases in interest rates or other disruptions in credit or financial markets, increases in fuel prices, raw material costs, or other operating costs could materially adversely affect our business. Economic downturns may adversely affect our commercial customers, including food service, hospitality and food processing industries whose business levels are particularly sensitive to adverse economies. For example, we may lose commercial customers and related revenues because of consolidation or cessation of commercial businesses or because these businesses switch to a lower cost provider. Pest and termite services represent discretionary expenditures to many of our residential customers. If consumers restrict their discretionary expenditures, due to inflation or other economic hardships, we may suffer a decline in revenues from our residential service lines. Disruptions in credit or financial markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain, or increase the cost of obtaining, financing in the future. Increases in interest rates may cause a reduction in new home construction or real estate transactions, which could result in a decrease in revenue. In addition, there can be no assurances that fuel prices, raw material costs, or other operating costs, all of which may be subject to inflationary pressures, will not materially increase in future years. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Capital and Ownership Structure A group that includes members of the Company’s Board of Directors and management has a significant ownership interest; public stockholders may have no effective voice in the Company’s management. The Company has a significant shareholder group, which includes the Company’s Executive Chairman of the Board, Gary W. Rollins, Board member, Pam Rollins, and certain persons acting as a group with them (the “Significant Shareholder”). The Significant Shareholder held directly, or through indirect beneficial ownership, in the aggregate, approximately 43 percent of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2023. As a result, these persons will have significant influence over the operations of the Company, including the election of directors and approval of substantial corporate transactions such as acquisitions and approval of matters requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control of the Company at a premium. The Significant Shareholder has a substantial ownership interest, and the availability of the Company’s common stock to the investing public may be limited. The availability of Rollins’ common stock to the investing public is limited to those shares not held by the Significant Shareholder, which could negatively impact Rollins’ stock trading prices and affect the ability of minority stockholders to sell their shares. Future sales by the Significant Shareholder of all or a portion of their shares could also negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. The Significant Shareholder could take various actions or engage in certain transactions that could negatively impact our common stock price or cause volatility in the market for our common stock. The Significant Shareholder may from time to time and at any time acquire or cause to be acquired, additional equity or other instruments of the Company or derivative instruments the value of which is linked to Company securities, or dispose or cause to be disposed, such equity or other securities or instruments, in any amount that the Significant Shareholder may determine in its sole discretion, through open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. In addition, depending upon a variety of factors, the Significant Shareholder may at any time engage in discussions with the Company and its affiliates, and other persons, including retained outside advisers, concerning the Company’s business, management, strategic alternatives and direction, and in its sole discretion, consider, formulate and implement various plans or proposals intended to enhance the value of its investment in the Company, including, among other things, proposing or effecting any matter that would constitute or result in: (i) the acquisition by any person of additional securities of the Company or the disposition of securities of the Company, in addition to the possible normal course dissolution of additional entities for estate or tax planning purposes; (ii) an extraordinary corporate transaction, such as a merger, reorganization or liquidation, involving the Company or any subsidiary thereof; (iii) a sale or transfer of a material amount of assets of the Company or any subsidiary thereof; (iv) a change in the present board of directors or management of the Company, including any plans or proposals to change the number or term of directors or to fill any existing vacancies on the board; (v) a material change in the present capitalization or dividend policy of the Company; (vi) other material changes in the Company’s business or corporate structure; (vii) changes in the Company’s charter, bylaws, or instruments corresponding thereto, or other actions which may impede the acquisition of control of the Company by any person; (viii) causing a class of securities of the Company to be delisted from a national securities exchange or to cease to be authorized to be quoted in an inter-dealer quotation system of a registered national securities association; or (ix) a class of equity securities of the Company becoming eligible for termination of registration pursuant to Section 12(g)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In the event the Significant Shareholder was to engage in any of the actions enumerated above, our common stock price could be negatively impacted or such actions could cause volatility in the market for our common stock. Certain provisions in Rollins, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit a takeover of the Company. Rollins, Inc.’s certificate of incorporation, bylaws and other documents contain provisions including advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and staggered terms for the Board of Directors. These provisions may make a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by the Company’s Board of Directors more difficult or expensive. 18 Table of Contents Item 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 1.C Cybersecurity The Company has security incident response policies and procedures for identifying, assessing, and managing material risks arising from cybersecurity incidents, including those arising from third-party service providers. The Company’s Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”), who has 30 years of experience in information technology and information security and has several industry certifications such as CISSP, CCSP, CISM, CRISC, and CIPP, is primarily responsible for managing cybersecurity risks. The CISO assesses cybersecurity incidents and classifies them by severity level in accordance with the Company’s Security Incident Guidelines, which determine how each cybersecurity incident is managed and communicated. The Company uses both internal and external resources to assess risk and manage its IT and 24x7 cybersecurity operations, including managed service providers who assist in the support of key business systems. The Company may also periodically engage external consultants to assist with cybersecurity incident management, particularly where advanced or specialized expertise may be required. The Company’s Incident Response and Breach Notification Policy outlines the procedures that the Company follows for evaluation and recovery from an incident, including containment of the affected systems, to restore our systems to normal operations. To date, the Company has not had a cybersecurity event that materially impacted or is reasonably likely to materially affect its business strategy, results of operations, financial condition, or the security of its proprietary data. The Audit Committee monitors the cybersecurity risk management and cyber control functions, including external security audits, and receives periodic updates from experienced senior management knowledgeable about assessing and managing cyber risks, including, as appropriate, updates on the prevention, detection, mitigation, and remediation of cyber incidents. Cybersecurity incidents that significantly impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of Company data or the reliability of the Company system or network are reported to certain members of the Company’s Executive Leadership Team, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Information and Administration Officer, and General Counsel, for assessment of the materiality of the incident, which will be made using both quantitative and qualitative analyses to determine an incident’s immediate and reasonably likely future impacts. Such cybersecurity incidents are also reported to the Audit Committee. Cybersecurity incidents that moderately impact the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of Company data or the reliability of the Company systems or networks are reported to the Security Incident Response Team, for assessment of the materiality of the incident. Our privacy compliance and digital risk management initiatives focus on the threats and risks to enterprise information and the underlying IT systems processing such information as part of the implementation of business processes. We have also implemented policies and procedures for the assessment, identification, and management of material risks from cybersecurity threats, including internal training, system controls, and monitoring and audit processes to protect the Company from internal and external vulnerabilities and to comply with consumer privacy laws in the areas in which we operate. Further, we limit retention of certain data, encrypt certain data and otherwise protect information to comply with consumer privacy laws in the areas in which we operate. The Company also has a cross-functional group of representatives from several departments that comprise the Cybersecurity and Privacy Committee, which meets and discusses information at least quarterly related to cybersecurity and privacy compliance at the Company, including training, policies, and trends. We also rely on, among other things, commercially available third parties including vendors, cybersecurity protection systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of protected information and data. The systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, meet standards set by the payment card industry. The Company has a global cybersecurity training program that requires all employees with access to the Company networks to participate in regular and mandatory training on how to be aware of, and help defend against, cybersecurity risks. Also, the Company regularly tests the efficacy of its training efforts as well as its systems to assess vulnerabilities to cybersecurity risks, including tabletop incident response exercises. Annually the Company conducts an Enterprise Risk Assessment during which management identifies and quantifies risks, including cybersecurity risks, that could enhance or impede the Company’s ability to achieve current or future strategic objectives. The conclusions of the annual Enterprise Risk Assessment are shared with the Audit Committee. The CISO also reviews with the Audit Committee the strategy, priorities, and goals of the cybersecurity program. 19 Table of Contents