,” below and elsewhere in this report. These and many other factors could affect Applied’s future financial condition and operating results and could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations based on forward-looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by Applied or on its behalf. Applied undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements. The following information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 2 Table of Contents APPLIED MATERIALS, INC. FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 27, 2013 TABLE OF CONTENTS 3 Table of Contents PART I Incorporated in 1967, Applied, a Delaware corporation, provides manufacturing equipment, services and software to the global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar photovoltaic (PV) and related industries. Applied’s customers include manufacturers of semiconductor wafers and chips, flat panel liquid crystal and other displays, solar PV cells and modules, and other electronic devices. These customers may use what they manufacture in their own end products or sell the items to other companies for use in advanced electronic components. Applied’s fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October. Applied operates in four reportable segments: Silicon Systems Group, Applied Global Services, Display, and Energy and Environmental Solutions. Applied manages its business based upon these segments. A summary of financial information for each reportable segment is found in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A discussion of factors that could affect operations is set forth under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A, which is incorporated herein by reference. In November 2011, Applied completed the acquisition of Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. (Varian), a leading supplier of ion implantation equipment to the semiconductor and solar industries. The acquisition expanded Applied's technologies for chip and solar module manufacturing. The acquired business is primarily included in consolidated results of operations and the results of the Silicon Systems Group and Applied Global Services segments. Net sales by reportable segment for the past three fiscal years were as follows: Silicon Systems Group Segment The Silicon Systems Group segment develops, manufactures and sells manufacturing equipment used to fabricate semiconductor chips, also referred to as integrated circuits (ICs). Most chips are built on a silicon wafer base and include a variety of circuit components, such as transistors and other devices, that are connected by multiple layers of wiring (interconnects). Applied offers systems that perform various processes used in chip fabrication, including atomic layer deposition (ALD), chemical vapor deposition (CVD), physical vapor deposition (PVD), electrochemical deposition (ECD), rapid thermal processing (RTP), ion implantation, chemical mechanical planarization (CMP), wet cleaning, and wafer metrology and inspection, as well as systems that etch or inspect circuit patterns on masks used in the photolithography process. Applied’s semiconductor manufacturing systems are used by integrated device manufacturers and foundries to build and package memory, logic and other types of chips. The majority of the Company's new equipment sales are for leading-edge technology for advanced nodes using 28 nanometer (nm) and smaller dimensions. To build a chip, the transistors, capacitors and other circuit components are first created on the surface of the wafer by performing a series of processes to deposit and selectively remove portions of successive film layers. Similar processes are then used to build the layers of wiring structures on the wafer. As the density of the circuit components increases to enable greater computing capability in the same or smaller physical area, the complexity of building the chip also increases, necessitating more process steps to form smaller transistor structures and more intricate wiring schemes. Advanced chip designs require more than 500 steps involving these and other processes to complete the manufacturing cycle. Today's advanced interconnects are made using copper as the main wiring material. Copper has low resistance and can carry a large amount of current in a small area, which allows signals to travel quickly. Applied is a leading supplier of systems for manufacturing copper-based interconnects, including equipment for depositing, etching and planarizing these multi-layer structures. 4 Table of Contents To increase the speed of interconnect signals even further, low dielectric constant (low k) films are used to insulate the copper wiring. Applied provides systems for depositing low k dielectric films that enable higher device performance and longer battery life. The transistor is another key area of the chip where semiconductor manufacturers are improving their device designs to enhance performance. Applied has technically advanced products for building smaller and faster transistors. One method of enhancing chip performance is strain engineering, a technique that stretches or compresses the space between atoms, allowing electrical current to flow more quickly. Multiple strain films are typically used in advanced devices since they have an additive effect on increasing transistor speed. Applied has systems to enable these applications using CVD and epitaxial deposition technologies. Major chipmakers are integrating high dielectric constant (high-k) and metal materials and processes in their transistor gate structures to increase chip performance and reduce power consumption. Applied has fully characterized processes for building these high-k/metal gates. These solutions include an integrated dielectric gate stack tool that combines four critical processes in a single system, a portfolio of metallization technologies using ALD and PVD, and an innovative high temperature etch system. To address the need for higher performance in a smaller space driven by new consumer products, a new type of chip packaging at wafer level is emerging, which enables three-dimensional (3D) ICs. Providing greater functionality in a smaller footprint, 3D ICs stack multiple chips together and electrically connect them using deep holes, called through-silicon via (TSV) structures. Applied has production-proven systems and processes required for advanced packaging manufacturing, including etch, CVD, PVD, ECD, wafer cleaning and CMP systems. Most of Applied’s semiconductor equipment products are single-wafer systems with multiple process chambers attached to a base platform. This enables each wafer to be processed separately in its own environment, allowing precise process control, while the system’s multiple chambers enable simultaneous, high productivity manufacturing. Applied sells most of its single-wafer, multi-chamber systems on six basic platforms: the Endura ®, , Centura ® , Producer ® , Raider ® , VIISta ® and Vantage ® platforms. These platforms support ALD, CVD, ECD, PVD, etch, ion implantation, and RTP technologies. Over time, the semiconductor industry has migrated to increasingly larger wafers to build chips. The predominant or common wafer size used today for volume production of advanced chips is 300 millimeter (mm), or 12-inch, wafers. Applied offers 300mm systems through its Silicon Systems Group segment. The Company also offers earlier-generation 200mm systems, as well as products and services to support all of its systems, which are reported under its Applied Global Services segment. The following discusses in more detail the portfolio of products and their associated process technology areas reported under the Silicon Systems Group segment. Deposition Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a chip. During deposition, layers of dielectric (an insulator), barrier, or electrically conductive (typically metal) films are deposited or grown on a wafer. Applied provides equipment to perform four types of deposition: ALD, CVD, ECD and PVD. In addition, Applied’s RTP systems can be used to perform certain types of dielectric deposition. Atomic Layer Deposition ALD is an advanced technology in which atoms are deposited one layer at a time to build chip structures. This technology enables customers to fabricate thin films of either conducting or insulating material with uniform coverage in nanometer-sized structures. One of the most critical areas of the transistor is its gate, which is built by depositing layers of dielectric films. At the 22nm node and below, these film layers are so thin that they must be atomically engineered. The Applied Centura Integrated Gate Stack system features advanced ALD technology that builds ultrathin high-k film layers less than 2nm in thickness — about one hundred thousandth the width of a human hair. 5 Table of Contents Chemical Vapor Deposition CVD is used to deposit dielectric and metal films on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming a thin film of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be silicon oxide, single-crystal epitaxial silicon, amorphous silicon, silicon nitride, dielectric anti-reflective coatings, low k dielectric (for highly-efficient insulating materials), aluminum, titanium, titanium nitride, polysilicon, tungsten, refractory metals or silicides. Applied offers the following CVD products and technologies: The Applied Producer CVD platform — The Producer high-throughput platform features Twin-Chamber ® modules that have two single-wafer process chambers per unit. Up to three Twin-Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer platform, giving it a simultaneous processing capacity of six wafers. Many dielectric CVD processes can be performed on this platform. The highest productivity model of this system is the Applied Producer GT, which features fast wafer handling performance and compact design. Low k Dielectric Films — Low k dielectric materials are used in copper-based chip designs to further improve interconnect speed. Using conventional CVD equipment, the Applied Producer Black Diamond ® family of low k systems provides customers with a proven, cost-effective way to integrate a variety of low k films into advanced interconnect structures. The Company's latest third-generation low k technologies are featured on the Applied Producer Black Diamond 3 system and Applied Producer Nanocure 3 system. In addition, the Company offers its Applied Producer ® Onyx TM process, an innovative film treatment that optimizes the molecular structure of low k films. Together, these products are designed to enable smaller, higher performance and more power-efficient devices at 22nm and below. Lithography-Enabling Solutions — Applied offers several technologies on the Producer system to help chipmakers extend their current 193nm lithography tools, including a line of Applied APF ® (advanced patterning film) films and Applied DARC ® (dielectric anti-reflective coating) films. Together, they provide a film stack with the precise dimensional control and compatibility needed to cost-effectively pattern nano-scale features without additional integration complexity. Gap Fill Films — There are many steps during the chipmaking process in which extremely small and deep, or high aspect ratio (HAR), structures must be filled void-free with a dielectric film. Many of these applications include the deposition of silicon oxides in substrate isolation structures, contacts and interconnects. Applied's most advanced gap fill system is its Applied Producer Eterna™ FCVD™ system. Targeted for 20nm and below chips, the Eterna system delivers a liquid-like film that flows freely into virtually any structure to provide void-free dielectric fill. Strain Engineering Solutions — The Applied Producer HARP™ system plays a key role in enhancing transistor performance, enabling chipmakers to boost chip speed by depositing strain-inducing dielectric films. Offering the industry’s first integrated stress nitride deposition and ultraviolet (UV) cure solution, the Applied Producer Celera CVD delivers benchmark levels of high-stress tensile silicon nitride films. The Company also offers the Applied Centura SiNgenPlus low pressure CVD system for low temperature silicon nitride films. Used together, and in conjunction with silicon germanium (SiGe) films using Applied’s epitaxial deposition technologies, these systems can provide additive strain engineering benefits. Through-Silicon Via Films — Applied offers products for TSV fabrication, including the Applied Producer InVia™ system. This product uses an innovative process to deposit the critical oxide liner film layer in HAR TSV structures, enabling robust electrical isolation of the TSV, which is vital for reliable device performance. For applications where higher temperatures can damage the manufacturing process, the Applied Producer Avila™ CVD system and Applied Producer Optiva CVD system allow high quality dielectric film deposition at stable substrate temperatures at a low cost of ownership. Epitaxial Deposition — Epitaxial silicon (epitaxy or epi) is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base for the device circuitry. Epi technology is used in an increasing number of IC devices in both the wafer substrate and transistor areas of a chip to enhance speed. The Applied Centura Epi system integrates pre- and post-epi processes on the same system to improve film quality and reduce production costs. This system is also used for SiGe epi technology, which reduces power usage and increases speed in certain types of advanced chips. For emerging transistor designs, the Applied Centura RP Epi system offers selective epi processes to enable faster transistor switching through strain engineering techniques. 6 Table of Contents Polysilicon Deposition — Polysilicon is a type of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure within the IC device. The Applied Centura Polygen™ LPCVD system is a single-wafer, multi-chamber product that deposits thin polysilicon films at high temperatures to create transistor gate structures. To address the challenging requirements of shrinking gate dimensions, the Applied Centura DPN Gate Stack system integrates chambers for decoupled plasma nitridation (DPN), RTP anneal, and polysilicon deposition on one platform to enable superior film quality and material properties. Tungsten Deposition — Tungsten is used in the contact area of a chip that connects the transistors to the wiring circuitry. In aluminum-based devices, tungsten is also used in the structures that connect the multiple layers of aluminum wiring. Applied has two products for depositing tungsten: the Applied Centura Sprint ® Tungsten CVD system and the Applied Centura iSprint ALD/CVD system which provide tungsten filling capability to 20nm and below. Electrochemical Deposition ECD is a process by which metal atoms from a chemical fluid (an electrolyte) are deposited on the surface of an immersed object. One application is to deposit copper in interconnect wiring structures. This process step follows the deposition of barrier and seed layers which prevent the copper from contaminating other areas of the device, improve the adhesion of the copper film and enable electrodeposition to occur. Another application is wafer level packaging for deposition of copper to fill TSV 3D chip-to-chip connections. Applied offers special configurations of the Applied Raider system for these ECD applications. Physical Vapor Deposition PVD is a physical process in which atoms of a gas, such as argon, are accelerated toward a metal target. The metal atoms chip off, or sputter away, and are then deposited on the wafer. The Applied Endura PVD system offers various advanced metal deposition processes, including aluminum, aluminum alloys, cobalt, titanium/titanium nitride, tantalum/tantalum nitride, tungsten/tungsten nitride, nickel, vanadium and copper. Introduced 23 years ago, the Company's Applied Endura platform is the most successful metal deposition system in the history of the semiconductor industry. The Applied Endura CuBS (copper barrier/seed) PVD system is widely used by customers for fabricating copper-based chips. Using PVD technology, the system deposits a tantalum-based barrier film that prevents copper material from entering other areas of the device and then a copper seed layer that primes the structure for the subsequent deposition of bulk copper. The Applied Endura CuBS RFX PVD system extends cost-effective CuBS technology to the 22nm node. The Applied Endura Avenir™ RF PVD system sequentially deposits the multiple metal film layers that form the heart of the industry’s new, faster, metal gate transistors. The Applied Endura iLB PVD/ALD system advances the state-of-the-art in ALD technology, enabling customers to shrink their speed-critical contact structures for 20nm and below devices. The Applied Endura Amber TM PVD system uses copper reflow technology to achieve rapid, void-free fill of interconnect structures at virtually any device node. Applied’s Endura system has also been used for many years in back-end applications to deposit metal layers before final bump or wire bonding packaging steps are performed. Additionally, the Applied Charger ® UBM PVD system, which is specifically designed for under-bump metallization (UBM) and other back-end processes, features linear architecture for reliable performance and very high productivity at a low cost per wafer. Etch Etching is used many times throughout the IC manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated with a light-sensitive film, called photoresist. A photolithography process then projects the circuit pattern onto the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by the photoresist pattern. Applied offers systems for etching dielectric, metal, and silicon films to meet the requirements of advanced processing. For etching silicon, the Applied Centris AdvantEdge™ Mesa™ system features eight process chambers for high wafer output and proprietary system intelligence software to assure every process on every chamber precisely matches. The system also saves on power, water and gas consumption, helping customers to lower operating costs and support their sustainable manufacturing initiatives. Chip manufacturers are also beginning to employ 3D architectures in advance memory chips to provide higher-density storage capacity. These structures require the precise etching of exceptionally deep and narrow structures. To meet this industry requirement, Applied offers its Applied Centura Avatar TM dielectric etch system that can etch holes and trenches up to 80:1 depth-to-width aspect ratios. Also for 3D chip manufacturing, the Applied Centura Silvia ® system is specifically designed for etching small, deep holes for TSV applications. 7 Table of Contents Rapid Thermal Processing RTP is a process in which a wafer is subjected to rapid bursts of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. A rapid thermal process is used mainly for annealing, which modifies the properties of deposited films. The Applied Centura Radiance ® Plus and Applied Vantage RadOx™ RTP systems feature advanced RTP technology with differing platform designs. While the multi-chamber Centura platform offers exceptional process flexibility, the streamlined two-chamber Vantage platform is designed for dedicated high-volume manufacturing. These single-wafer RTP systems are also used for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films, deposition steps that traditional large batch furnaces can no longer achieve with the necessary precision and control. Applied’s latest RTP systems address the critical need for controlling wafer temperature to increase chip performance and yield. The laser-based Applied Vantage Astra™ millisecond anneal system abruptly raises the surface temperature of the wafer locally to modify material properties at the atomic level. The Applied Vantage Vulcan system, the first RTP system to heat the wafer entirely from the backside, brings a new level of precision and control to the anneal process, allowing chipmakers to produce more high performance devices per wafer. Ion Implantation Ion implantation is a key technology for forming transistors and is used many times during chip fabrication. During ion implantation, wafers are bombarded by a beam of electrically-charged ions, called dopants, which change the electrical properties of the exposed surface films. These dopants are accelerated to an energy that permits them to penetrate the substrate at a precise quantity and depth. Dopant concentration is determined by controlling the number of ions in the beam and the number of times the wafer passes through the beam; the depth of the dopants is determined by the energy of beam. Ion implantation systems may also be used in other areas of IC manufacturing to modify the material properties of the semiconductor devices, as well as in manufacturing crystalline-silicon solar cells. Applied offers a line of single-wafer ion implantation equipment that covers the entire energy and current range required to manufacture advanced devices. The VIISta 3000XP implanter delivers the angle precision required for advanced high-energy applications, while the VIISta 900XP implanter provides medium current precision doping. The VIISta PLAD implanter enables manufacturers to rapidly implant high dopant concentrations over the entire wafer using a low-energy process that preserves sensitive circuit features in next-generation devices. The VIISta Trident high current ion implanter provides the precise dose and angle control needed for advanced transistor structures. Chemical Mechanical Planarization The CMP process removes material from a wafer to create a flat (planarized) surface. This process allows subsequent photolithography patterning and material deposition steps to occur with greater accuracy, resulting in more highly uniform film layers with minimal thickness variations. Applied has led the industry with its 300mm Applied Reflexion ® LK system, with features such as integrated cleaning, film measurement and process control capabilities. Applied’s latest CMP product, the Applied Reflexion GT system, has an innovative dual-wafer design that increases performance while lowering system cost of ownership in fabricating copper interconnects and tungsten contacts. 8 Table of Contents Metrology and Wafer Inspection Applied offers several products for measuring features and inspecting defects on the wafer during various stages of the fabrication process. These systems enable customers to characterize and control critical dimension (CD) and defect issues, especially at advanced generation technology nodes. Critical Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes (CD-SEMs and DR-SEMs) — Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to form images of microscopic features of a patterned wafer at extremely high magnification. Applied’s SEM products provide customers with full automation, along with the high accuracy and sensitivity needed for measuring very small CDs. The Applied VeritySEM ® 4i+ metrology system uses proprietary SEM imaging technology to enable precise control of the lithography and etching processes, measuring CDs at a precision of less than 0.3nm. Applied’s OPC Check™ software for the VeritySEM system performs automated qualification of OPC-based (optical proximity correction) chip designs, significantly reducing mask verification time over conventional manual methods. DR-SEMs review defects on the wafer (such as particles, scratches or residues) that are first located by a defect detection system and then classify the defects to identify their source. The high-throughput, fully automatic Applied SEMVision™ Defect Analysis products enable customers to use this technology as an integral part of their production lines to analyze critical defects with industry-leading throughput. In 2013, Applied introduced the latest generation of defect review and classification technology with its Applied SEMVision G6 system, designed to accelerate time-to-yield for leading-edge chip manufacturing at the 1X-nm node and beyond. The system delivers a 30% resolution improvement over the previous SEMVision generation, making it the highest available in the industry. Wafer Inspection — Using deep ultraviolet (DUV) laser-based technology, defects can be detected on patterned wafers (wafers with printed circuit images) as they move between processing steps. Defects include particles, open circuit lines, and shorts between lines. The Applied UVision ® 5 wafer inspection system detects yield-limiting defects in the critical patterning layers of logic and memory devices. Mask Making Masks are used by photolithography systems to transfer microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. Since an imperfection in a mask may be replicated on the wafer, the mask must be virtually defect-free. Applied provides systems for etching and inspecting masks. Applied's Tetra™ line of systems has been used by mask makers worldwide to etch the majority of high-end masks over the last five years. The Applied Centura Tetra EUV (extreme ultraviolet) Advanced Reticle Etch system is an advanced etch tool for fabricating leading-edge masks at 22nm and below. The Applied Aera3™ Mask inspection system also addresses the challenges of detecting defects on 22nm masks, using sophisticated aerial imaging technology that allows users to immediately see how the pattern on the mask will appear on the wafer, revealing only the defects most likely to print and significantly reducing inspection time. These systems also address the challenge of fabricating emerging EUV lithography masks. 9 Table of Contents Applied Global Services Segment The Applied Global Services segment encompasses services, products and integrated solutions to optimize equipment and fab performance and productivity. Leveraging the Company's experience with complex manufacturing technology and processes, skilled equipment and process engineers are deployed at or near customer sites in more than a dozen countries to support approximately 33,000 installed Applied semiconductor, display and solar manufacturing systems worldwide. Applied offers the following general types of services and products under the Applied Global Services segment: Fab and Equipment Services — Applied's fab and equipment services are designed to help customers improve cost of ownership, process control and device performance. They include corrective and preventive maintenance programs, comprehensive spare parts packages, and consulting and advanced service offerings. For example, Applied Performance Services offers customers comprehensive equipment support with performance-based pricing and predictable costs. This program includes Applied’s ExpertConnect remote diagnostic capability, providing specialized support around the clock. In addition, Applied FabVantage™ Consulting Services are delivered by teams of technology, equipment and engineering experts who provide key insights to help customers solve some of their most difficult manufacturing challenges. Applied’s TechEdge™ advanced service offerings combine equipment and engineering expertise with software and connectivity technologies to address manufacturing issues like excursion control and predictive maintenance. Legacy Systems — Applied offers products to extend the performance and productive life of 200mm semiconductor fabs, including new and remanufactured 200mm equipment, system enhancements to lower cost of ownership and extend technology and fab transition services. Applied’s 200mm systems are available in production-proven technologies that provide productive, cost-effective manufacturing solutions for mainstream, as well as specialty processes including micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS), power transistors and image sensors. Automation Systems — Applied offers automated factory-level and tool-level control software systems for semiconductor, display and solar manufacturing facilities. These enterprise solutions include manufacturing execution systems (MES) to automate the production of wafers, display and solar substrates; advanced process control systems; and scheduling and materials handling control systems. Applied also offers computerized maintenance management systems, performance tracking, and modeling and simulation tools for improving asset utilization. Applied’s E3™ equipment engineering system solution, for example, integrates all critical equipment automation and process control components. Display Segment Applied’s products for manufacturing liquid crystal displays (LCDs), organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs), and other display technologies for televisions, personal computers (PCs), tablets, smartphones, and other consumer-oriented devices are reported under its Display segment. While similarities exist between the technologies utilized in chipmaking and display fabrication, the most significant differences are in the size and composition of the substrate. Substrates used to manufacture display panels can be more than 120 times larger in area than 300mm wafers and are made of glass, while wafers used in semiconductor fabrication are made of silicon. Applied supplies systems that process and test different glass substrate sizes. To meet consumer demand for larger, more cost-effective LCD TVs, Applied’s latest generation (Gen) 10 systems can process substrates sized at approximately 2.85 x 3.05 meters, with each substrate enabling the production of up to six 65-inch LCD TV screens. Applied is also extending its core LCD technology to enable ultra-high resolution displays for next-generation smartphones, tablet PCs, and OLED TVs. These higher-performance displays are fabricated using newer materials such as low-temperature polysilicon (LTPS) and metal oxide films in the transistor layer of the panel to gain significantly faster switching speeds. Applied also offers its line of plasma-enhanced CVD (PECVD) systems for depositing LTPS films with the AKT-15K PX, AKT-25K PX, and AKT-55K PX systems. These CVD systems are available for a range of display substrate sizes to enable manufacturers to achieve economies of scale. 10 Table of Contents Applied also offers technology for fabricating advanced metal oxide-based transistors in displays. The AKT-PiVot™ PVD system, which features rotary cathode array technology, deposits indium gallium zinc oxide (IZGO) film to form the transistor channel. The AKT-PECVD system is used to deposit the dielectric film needed to insulate the transistor gate. Together, these systems offer a cost-effective solution for producing smaller, faster switching pixels to create higher resolution screens. For manufacturing the color filter of LCD panels, Applied offers the AKT-NEW ARISTO™ system for transparent conductive oxide film deposition. Providing customers with new levels of productivity and flexibility, the Applied AKT-AristoTwin system is used for manufacturing touch-enabled displays. The system's two independent processing tracks achieve more capacity with a smaller footprint than traditional platforms. To complement these systems, Applied also offers a line of electron beam array test (EBT) systems for testing substrates during production for defective pixels and other imperfections, including the Gen-10 AKT-90K EBT product. Featuring one of the industry’s fastest and most accurate pixel test technologies, the EBT systems’ non-contact test technology enables the safe testing of thin film transistors (TFTs) used in high-value TV panels without damaging or scratching the display. Energy and Environmental Solutions Segment The Energy and Environmental Solutions segment includes systems for manufacturing wafer-based crystalline silicon (c-Si) cells and modules. These systems are designed to increase the conversion efficiency and yields of solar PV devices in order to help reduce the cost per watt of solar generated electricity. The segment also includes high-throughput roll-to-roll, vacuum web coating systems for high-performance deposition of a range of films on flexible substrates for flexible electronics, packaging and other applications. The solar equipment products offered under this segment include: Cell manufacturing — Applied offers a comprehensive line of automated metallization and test systems for c-Si cell manufacturing. These systems include high-precision printing capability for increasing the efficiency of c-Si solar cells. Wafer manufacturing — Applied’s precision wafering systems crop and square silicon ingots into bricks and slice silicon bricks into thin wafers. These wafers are subsequently processed by cell manufacturing systems to create the PV cells used in making c-Si solar panels. Ion implantation — Applied offers ion implantation technology for c-Si cell manufacturing, a process that enables the volume production of high efficiency c-Si cells with better yield and reduced cost. 11 Table of Contents Backlog Applied manufactures systems to meet demand represented by order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog consists of: (1) orders for which written authorizations have been accepted and assigned shipment dates are within the next 12 months, or shipment has occurred but revenue has not been recognized; and (2) contractual service revenue and maintenance fees to be earned within the next 12 months. Backlog by reportable segment as of October 27, 2013 and October 28, 2012 was as follows: Applied’s backlog on any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any future periods, due to the potential for customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders. Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders prior to shipment, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Delays in delivery schedules and/or a reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on Applied’s business and results of operations. Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies Applied’s manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembly, test and integration of various proprietary and commercial parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) that are used to manufacture systems. Applied has implemented a distributed manufacturing model under which manufacturing and supply chain activities are conducted in various countries, including the United States, Europe, Israel, Singapore, Taiwan, and other countries in Asia, and assembly of some systems is completed at customer sites. Applied uses numerous vendors, including contract manufacturers, to supply parts and assembly services for the manufacture and support of its products. Although Applied makes reasonable efforts to assure that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always possible. Accordingly, some key parts may be obtained from only a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Applied seeks to reduce costs and to lower the risks of manufacturing and service interruptions by: (1) selecting and qualifying alternate suppliers for key parts; (2) monitoring the financial condition of key suppliers; (3) maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts; (4) qualifying new parts on a timely basis; and (5) locating certain manufacturing operations in close proximity to suppliers and customers. Research, Development and Engineering Applied’s long-term growth strategy requires continued development of new products. The Company’s significant investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E) has generally enabled it to deliver new products and technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus allowing customers to incorporate these products into their manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers to design systems and processes that meet their planned technical and production requirements. Product development and engineering organizations are located primarily in the United States, as well as in Europe, Israel, Taiwan, and China. In addition, Applied outsources certain RD&E activities, some of which are performed outside the United States, primarily in India. Process support and customer demonstration laboratories are located in the United States, China, Taiwan, Europe, and Israel. Applied’s investments in RD&E for product development and engineering programs to create or improve products and technologies over the last three years were as follows: $1.3 billion ( 18 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2013 , $1.2 billion ( 14 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2012 , and $1.1 billion ( 11 percent of net sales) in fiscal 2011 . Applied has spent an average of 14 percent of net sales in RD&E over the last five years. In addition to RD&E for specific product technologies, Applied maintains ongoing programs for automation control systems, materials research, and environmental control that are applicable to its products. 12 Table of Contents Marketing and Sales Net sales by geographic region, determined by the location of customers' facilities to which products were shipped, were as follows: Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied markets and sells products worldwide almost entirely through a direct sales force. Approximately 80 percent of Applied’s fiscal 2013 net sales were to regions outside of the United States. General economic conditions impact Applied’s business and financial results. From time to time, the markets in which products are sold experience weak economic conditions that may negatively impact sales. Applied’s business is usually not seasonal in nature, but it is highly cyclical, based on capital equipment investment by major semiconductor, flat panel display, solar PV and other manufacturers. Customers’ expenditures depend on many factors, including: anticipated market demand and pricing for semiconductors, display, solar cells and modules, and other substrates; the development of new technologies; customers’ factory utilization; capital resources and financing; government policies and incentives; and global and regional economic conditions. Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and long-lived assets attributable to Applied’s geographic regions is included in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following companies accounted for at least 10 percent of Applied’s net sales in 2013 , 2012 , and 2011 , which were for products in multiple reportable segments. ________________________ Competition The industries in which Applied operates are highly competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. Applied’s ability to compete generally depends on its ability to timely commercialize its technology, continually improve its products, and develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors include technical capability and differentiation, productivity and cost-effectiveness. The importance of these factors varies according to customers’ needs, including product mix and respective product requirements, applications, and the timing and circumstances of purchasing decisions. Substantial competition exists in all areas of Applied’s business. Competitors range from small companies that compete in a single region, which may benefit from policies and regulations that favor domestic companies, to global, diversified companies. Applied’s ability to compete requires a high level of investment in RD&E, marketing and sales, and global customer support activities. Management believes that many of Applied’s products have strong competitive positions. 13 Table of Contents The competitive environment for each segment is described below. The semiconductor industry has been increasingly driven by consumer demand for lower-cost electronic products with increased capability. As a result, products within the Silicon Systems Group segment are subject to significant changes in customer requirements, including transitions to smaller dimensions, new materials and an increasing number of applications. While certain existing technologies may be adapted to new requirements, some applications create the need for an entirely different technological approach. The rapid pace of technological change can quickly diminish the value of current technologies and products and create opportunities for existing and new competitors. Applied offers a variety of technologically differentiated products that must continuously evolve to satisfy customers’ requirements in order to compete effectively. Applied allocates resources among its numerous product offerings and therefore may decide not to invest in an individual product to the same degree as competitors who specialize in fewer products. There are a number of competitors serving the semiconductor manufacturing equipment industry, with some offering a single product line and others offering multiple product lines. These competitors range from suppliers serving a single region to global, diversified companies. The competitive environment for the Silicon Systems Group in fiscal 2013 reflected continued investment in the semiconductor industry driven by capacity demand for mobile computing. Foundry customers led capacity additions for advanced technology nodes and were the primary drivers for net sales of the Silicon Systems Group in fiscal 2013. Products and services within the Applied Global Services segment complement the Silicon Systems Group, Display, and Energy and Environmental Solutions segments’ products, in markets that are characterized by demanding worldwide service requirements and a diverse group of numerous competitors. To compete effectively, Applied offers products and services to improve tool performance, lower overall cost of ownership, and increase the productivity and energy efficiency of customers’ fab operations. Significant competitive factors include productivity, cost-effectiveness, and the level of technical service and support. The importance of these factors varies according to customers’ needs and the type of products or services offered. Industry conditions that affected Applied Global Services’ sales of spares and services in fiscal 2013 were principally semiconductor manufacturers' wafer starts and factory utilization rates. Products in the Display segment are generally subject to strong competition from a number of major competitors primarily in Asia. Applied holds established market positions with its technically-differentiated LCD and OLED manufacturing solutions for PECVD, color filter PVD, PVD array, PVD touch panel, and TFT array testing, although its market position could change quickly due to customers' evolving requirements. The competitive environment for the Display segment in fiscal 2013 was characterized by a recovery in demand for TV manufacturing equipment compared to weak industry levels the prior year, while demand continued for equipment to make touch screen and high-end mobile devices. Important factors affecting the competitive position of Applied's Display products include: industry trends, Applied's ability to innovate and develop new products, and the extent to which Applied's products are technically-differentiated, as well as which customers within a highly concentrated customer base are making capital equipment investments and Applied's existing position at these customers. Applied's products within the Energy and Environmental Solutions segment compete in several diverse market areas, including primarily the c-Si solar equipment market. The solar equipment market is characterized by significant pressure to reduce customers' overall production costs and improve performance. In fiscal 2013, while solar end-market demand continued to be robust as the industry further reduced manufacturing costs and made conversion efficiency improvements, enabling PV-generated electricity to reach parity with retail electricity rates in an increasing number of areas around the world, investment levels in capital equipment remained depressed. Global solar PV production capacity exceeds end-demand, resulting in a continued challenging environment and causing solar cell and wafering customers to defer purchases of new capacity to preserve capital. The rationalization of capacity will be an important factor in determining when supply and demand come back into balance. Adding to market uncertainty are international trade actions against Chinese solar manufacturers commenced in the U.S. and other regions that have resulted in the imposition of some import sanctions, with others still under consideration. With respect to its c-Si equipment products, Applied competes with a number of other companies, some of which have significant experience with solar applications and some of which are new entrants to the solar equipment market. The solar industry downturn has affected many of Applied's competitors and customers adversely, with some companies going through extensive financial and organizational restructuring, and in some instances ceasing operations. 14 Table of Contents Patents and Licenses Management believes that Applied’s competitive position significantly depends upon the Company’s research, development, engineering, manufacturing and marketing capabilities, and not just on its patent position. However, protection of Applied’s technological assets through enforcement of its intellectual property rights, including patents, is important. Therefore, Applied’s practice is to file patent applications in the United States and other countries for inventions that Applied considers significant. Applied has approximately 10,400 patents in the United States and other countries, and additional applications are pending for new inventions. Although Applied does not consider its business materially dependent upon any one patent, the rights of Applied and the products made and sold under its patents, taken as a whole, are a significant element of Applied’s business. In addition to patents, Applied also possesses other intellectual property, including trademarks, know-how, trade secrets, and copyrights. Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements with other companies when management determines that it is in Applied’s best interest to do so. Applied pays royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of its products, of certain patented technologies. Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted to third parties. Royalties received from or paid to third parties have not been, and are not expected to be, material to Applied’s consolidated results of operations. In the normal course of business, Applied periodically receives and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In responding to such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights. However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If Applied is not able to resolve or settle claims, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and/or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applied’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Environmental Matters Applied maintains a number of environmental, health, and safety programs that are primarily preventive in nature. As part of these programs, Applied regularly monitors ongoing compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, Applied has trained personnel to conduct investigations of any environmental, health, or safety incidents, including, but not limited to, spills, releases, or possible contamination. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental, health, and safety provisions, including, but not limited to, those regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, remedial agreements, and other actions relating to the environment have not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on Applied’s capital expenditures, competitive position, financial condition, or results of operations. The most recent report on Applied’s environmental, health, and safety activities can be found in the Company’s latest Citizenship Report on its website at http://www.appliedmaterials.com/about/cr/sustainability . The Citizenship Report is updated periodically. This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the information on, or accessible through, Applied’s website is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein. Employees At October 27, 2013 , Applied employed approximately 13,700 regular employees and 800 temporary employees. In the high-technology industry, competition for highly-skilled employees is intense. Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent upon its continued ability to attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees. There can be no assurance that Applied will be able to attract, hire, assimilate, motivate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees. 15 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table and notes set forth information about Applied’s executive officers as of October 27, 2013 : 16 Table of Contents Available Information Applied’s website is http://www.appliedmaterials.com. Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its website, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. This website address is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. None of the information on, or accessible through, Applied’s website is part of this Form 10-K or is incorporated by reference herein. 17 Table of Contents The following factors could materially and adversely affect Applied’s business, financial condition or results of operations and cause reputational harm, and they should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company and its business, in addition to other information presented elsewhere in this report. The industries that Applied serves are volatile and difficult to predict. As a supplier to the global semiconductor, flat panel display, and solar industries, Applied is subject to business cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which can be difficult to predict and which vary by reportable segment. These industries historically have been cyclical due to sudden changes in customers’ requirements for new manufacturing capacity and advanced technology, which depend in part on customers’ capacity utilization, production volumes, access to affordable capital, end-use demand, consumer buying patterns, and inventory levels relative to demand, as well as the rate of technology transitions and general economic conditions. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers’ purchases and investments in technology, and continue to affect Applied’s orders, net sales, operating expenses and net income. To meet rapidly changing demand in the industries it serves, Applied must accurately forecast demand and effectively manage its resources and production capacity for each of its segments as well as across multiple segments, and may incur unexpected or additional costs to align its business operations. During periods of increasing demand for its products, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand; effectively manage its supply chain; attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees; and continue to control costs. During periods of decreasing demand, Applied must reduce costs and align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions; effectively manage its supply chain; and motivate and retain key employees. Applied is exposed to risks associated with the uncertain global economy. Uncertain global economic conditions and weak or moderate growth in China, Europe, and the United States, along with uncertainties in the financial markets, national debt and fiscal concerns in various regions, and government austerity measures, are posing challenges to the industries in which Applied operates. The markets for semiconductors and flat panel displays in particular depend largely on consumer spending, while the solar market depends in part on government incentives and the availability of financing for PV installations. Economic uncertainty and related factors exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending and may cause certain Applied customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders for equipment or services, which may in turn reduce Applied's net sales, reduce backlog, and affect Applied’s ability to convert backlog to sales. Uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other manufacturers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales and/or additional inventory or bad debt expense for Applied. These conditions may similarly affect key suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and result in delays for Applied’s products or added costs. In addition, these conditions may lead to strategic alliances by, or consolidation of, other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect Applied’s ability to compete effectively. Uncertainty about future economic and industry conditions also makes it more challenging for Applied to forecast its operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect its businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. Applied may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect Applied’s ability to capitalize on opportunities. In addition, Applied maintains an investment portfolio that is subject to general credit, liquidity, foreign exchange, market and interest rate risks. The risks to Applied’s investment portfolio may be exacerbated if financial market conditions deteriorate and, as a result, the value and liquidity of the investment portfolio, as well as returns on pension assets, could be negatively impacted and lead to impairment charges. Applied also maintains cash balances in various bank accounts globally in order to fund normal operations. If any of these financial institutions becomes insolvent, it could limit Applied’s ability to access cash in the affected accounts. 18 Table of Contents Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the various industries in which it operates. The global semiconductor, flat panel display, solar and related industries in which Applied operates are characterized by ongoing changes affecting some or all of these industries that impact demand for and/or the profitability of Applied's products, including: Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the semiconductor industry. The largest proportion of Applied’s consolidated net sales and profitability has been and continues to be derived from sales of manufacturing equipment by the Silicon Systems Group to the global semiconductor industry. In addition, a majority of the revenues of Applied Global Services is from sales of service products to semiconductor manufacturers. The semiconductor industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to this industry that impact demand for and/or the profitability of Applied's semiconductor equipment and service products, including: 19 Table of Contents Applied must accurately forecast, and allocate appropriate resources and investment towards addressing, key technology changes and inflections, such as the transition to 20nm devices, in order to enable opportunities for gains. In addition, the industry transition from 300mm to 450mm wafers presents opportunities as well as risks and uncertainties, including those related to cost, technical complexity, timing, and the resulting effect on demand for manufacturing equipment and services. Several semiconductor customers have invested in another wafer fabrication equipment supplier to help fund development of 450mm and other new technologies, which may influence the timing of technology transitions, funding allocations or other matters. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the flat panel display industry. The global flat panel display industry historically has experienced considerable volatility in capital equipment investment levels, due in part to the limited number of display manufacturers, the concentrated nature of end-use applications, excess production capacity relative to end-use demand, and panel manufacturer profitability. Industry growth has depended primarily on consumer demand for increasingly larger and more advanced TVs and, more recently, on demand for smartphones and other mobile devices, which demand is highly sensitive to cost and improvements in technologies and features. The display industry is characterized by ongoing changes particular to this industry that impact demand for and/or the profitability of Applied's display products, including: 20 Table of Contents Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes specific to the solar industry. Investment levels in capital equipment for the global solar industry have experienced considerable volatility. In recent years, global solar PV production capacity has exceeded end-use demand, causing customers to significantly reduce or delay investments in manufacturing capacity and new technology, or to cease operations. The global solar market is characterized by ongoing changes specific to this industry that impact demand for and/or the profitability of Applied’s solar products, including: Applied must continually innovate, commercialize its products, and adapt its business and product offerings to respond to competition and rapid technological changes. As Applied operates in a highly competitive environment in which innovation is critical, its future success depends on many factors, including the effective commercialization and customer acceptance of its equipment, services and related products. In addition, Applied must successfully execute its growth strategy, including enhancing its presence in existing markets, expanding into related markets, cultivating new markets and exceeding industry growth rates, while constantly improving its operational performance. The development, introduction and support of a broadening set of products in more collaborative, geographically diverse, open and varied competitive environments have grown more complex and expensive over time. Furthermore, new or improved products may entail higher costs and reduced profits. Applied’s performance may be adversely affected if it does not timely, cost-effectively and successfully: 21 Table of Contents Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Applied’s semiconductor customer base historically has been, and is becoming even more, highly concentrated as a result of economic and industry conditions. In fiscal 2013, three semiconductor manufacturers accounted for approximately 65 percent of Silicon Systems Group net sales and two customers accounted for 40 percent of Applied’s consolidated net sales. Applied’s display customer base is also highly concentrated, while concentration within Applied’s solar customer base varies depending on the product line but is increasing due to challenging industry conditions. Applied’s customer base is also geographically-concentrated. See