In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. 2 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Capital Markets, Credit Markets, and Real Estate Volatility in capital and credit markets, or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, either nationally or regionally in one or more of the markets in which we operate, could adversely impact us . The capital and credit markets are subject to volatility and disruption. We therefore may not be able to obtain new debt financing or refinance our existing debt on favorable terms or at all, which would adversely affect our liquidity, our ability to make distributions to shareholders, acquire assets and continue our development activities. Other weakened economic conditions, including job losses, high unemployment levels, stock market volatility, and uncertainty about the future, could adversely affect rental rates and occupancy levels. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and operating results. Additional key economic risks which may adversely affect conditions in the markets in which we operate include the following: Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents . Our apartment leases are generally for a term of fifteen months or less. As these leases typically permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. Competition could limit our ability to lease apartments or increase or maintain rental income . There are numerous housing alternatives which compete with our properties in attracting residents. Our properties compete directly with other multifamily properties, condominiums, single-family homes, third-party providers of short-term rentals and serviced apartments, which are available for rent or purchase in the markets in which our properties are located. This competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease apartment homes at our present properties or any newly developed or acquired property, as well as on the rents realized. We face risks associated with land holdings and related activities . We hold land for future development and may in the future acquire additional land holdings. The risks inherent in purchasing, owning, and developing land increase as demand for apartments, or rental rates, decrease. Real estate markets are highly uncertain and, as a result, the value of undeveloped land may fluctuate significantly. In addition, carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses or reduced profitability. As a result, we hold certain land, and may in the future acquire additional land, in our development pipeline at a cost we may not be able to fully recover or at a cost which may preclude us from developing a profitable multifamily community. If there are subsequent changes in the fair market value of our land holdings which we determine is less than the carrying basis of our land holdings reflected in our financial statements plus estimated costs to sell, we may be required to take future impairment charges which would reduce our net income. Risks Associated with Our Operations Development, redevelopment and construction risks could impact our profitability . We intend to continue to develop, redevelop and construct multifamily apartment communities for our portfolio. In 2020 , we expect to incur costs between approximately $220 million and $240 million related to the construction of seven consolidated projects. Additionally, during 2020 , we expect to incur costs between approximately $65 million and $75 million related to the start of new development activities, between approximately $52 million and $56 million related to repositions and revenue 3 Table of Contents enhancing expenditures of existing properties and between approximately $16 million and $20 million in extensive redevelopment expenditures of existing properties. Our development, redevelopment and construction activities may be exposed to a number of risks which may increase our construction costs and decrease our profitability, including the following: Our inability to successfully implement our development, redevelopment and construction strategy could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and pay distributions to shareholders. One of our wholly-owned subsidiaries is engaged in the business of providing general contracting services under construction contracts entered into between it and third parties (which may include our nonconsolidated affiliates). The terms of those construction contracts generally require this subsidiary to estimate the time and costs to complete a project to calculate the cost plus margin for the project fee, but not to exceed a maximum amount, and to assume the risk when these estimates may be greater than anticipated. As a result, profitability on those contracts is dependent on the ability to accurately predict such factors. The time and costs necessary to complete a project may be affected by a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed above, many of which are beyond this subsidiary’s control. In addition, the terms of those contracts generally require this subsidiary to warrant its work for a period of time during which it may be required to repair, replace, or rebuild non-conforming work. Further, trailing liabilities, based on various legal theories such as claims of negligent construction, may result from such projects, and these trailing liabilities may go on for a number of years depending on the length of the statute of repose in the applicable jurisdictions. Investments through joint ventures and investment funds involve risks not present in investments in which we are the sole investor . We have invested and may continue to invest as a joint venture partner in joint ventures. These investments involve risks, including, but not limited to, the possibility the other joint venture partner may have business goals which are inconsistent with ours, possess the ability to take or force action or withhold consent contrary to our requests, or become insolvent and require us to assume and fulfill the joint venture’s financial obligations. We and our joint venture partners may each have the right to initiate a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire a joint venture partner’s interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have entered into such a transaction. Each joint venture agreement is individually negotiated, and our ability to operate, finance, or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the applicable joint venture agreement. We account for three investment funds (collectively, the "Funds") utilizing the equity method of accounting. As of December 31, 2019, we had two discretionary investment funds, and in March 2015, we completed the formation of a third fund with an unaffiliated third party which did not own any properties in 2019, 2018, or 2017. The risks associated with our Funds, which we manage as the general partner and advisor, include, but are not limited to, the following: 4 Table of Contents Competition could adversely affect our ability to acquire properties . We expect other real estate investors will compete with us to acquire additional operating properties. This competition could increase prices for the type of properties we would likely pursue and adversely affect our ability to acquire these properties or achieve the expected profitability of such properties upon acquisition. Our acquisition strategy may not produce the cash flows expected . We may acquire additional operating properties on a selective basis. Our acquisition activities are subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the following: Changes in rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and property values . Certain states and local municipalities have recently adopted rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations, imposing restrictions on amounts of rent increases which may be charged based solely on market conditions. There are a number of additional states and local municipalities in which we operate also considering or being urged by advocacy groups to consider imposing rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations could limit our ability to increase rents, charge certain fees, evict residents, or recover increases in our operating expenses and could make it more difficult to dispose of properties in certain circumstances. The terms of laws and regulations recently enacted, future laws and regulations which may be enacted, as well as any lawsuits against the Company arising from such issues, could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and could reduce the value of our operating properties. Failure to qualify as a REIT could have adverse consequences . We may not continue to qualify as a REIT in the future. Also, the Internal Revenue Service may challenge our qualification as a REIT for prior years. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we may be subject to federal and state income taxes for such year. In addition, we may not be able to requalify as a REIT for the four subsequent taxable years and may be subject to federal and state income taxes in those years as well. This may also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital which may adversely affect the value of our common shares. We may face other tax liabilities in the future which may impact our cash flow. These potential tax liabilities may be calculated on our income or property values at either the corporate or individual property levels. Any additional tax expense incurred would decrease the cash available for cash distributions to our common shareholders and non-controlling interest holders. Additionally, in order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT we must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement to distribute annual dividends to our shareholders equal to a minimum of 90% of our adjusted taxable income. Tax laws have recently changed and may continue to change at any time, and any such legislative or other actions could have a negative effect on us . Tax laws remain under constant review by persons involved in the legislative process, at the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Treasury, and by various state and local tax authorities. Future changes in tax laws, including to administrative interpretations, enacted tax rates, or new pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including making it more difficult or more costly for us to qualify as a REIT. Litigation risks could affect our business . As an owner, manager and developer of multifamily properties, we may incur liability based on various conditions at our properties and the buildings thereon, and we also have become and in the future may become involved in legal proceedings, including consumer, employment, tort or commercial litigation, which if decided adversely to or settled by us, and not adequately covered by insurance, could result in liability which is material to our financial condition or results of operations. 5 Table of Contents Damage from catastrophic weather and other natural events could result in losses . A certain number of our properties are located in areas which have experienced and may in the future experience catastrophic weather and other natural events from time to time, including fires, snow or ice storms, windstorms, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding or other severe weather, or other environmental events. These adverse weather or natural events could cause substantial damages or losses to our properties which could exceed our insurance coverage. In the event of a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose our capital invested in the affected property, anticipated future revenue from the property, and could also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The implementation of future enhancements to our new enterprise resource planning system could interfere with our business and operations . We have completed the first phase of a multi-year implementation of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system which replaced our previous financial accounting system. This ERP system maintains our books and records, records transactions, and provides important information relating to the operations of our business to our management. The implementation of this ERP system has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant personnel and financial resources. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, significant resources in planning and project management, issues may arise during the implementation of future enhancements which may result in operational or financial reporting delays, increased costs or other difficulties not presently contemplated. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of future enhancements to the ERP system could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business . We use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations, including internet and cloud-based systems and applications. We also use mobile devices, social networking, outside vendors and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers and residents. Such uses and the on-going advancement in technology give rise to potential cybersecurity risks with increasing sophistication, including but not limited to, security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of confidential information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and confidential information and intellectual property, including residents' and suppliers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about us. Further, as we pursue our strategy to grow through acquisitions and developments and to pursue new initiatives to improve our operations, we are also expanding our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with our operations, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks and may be liable for the consequential litigation and remediation costs. Additionally, the measures we have implemented to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents may not be effective and there can be no complete assurance of prevention or anticipation of such incidents. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive data, confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of residents, potential liability and competitive disadvantage, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our third-party service providers are primarily responsible for the security of their own information technology environments and in certain instances, we rely significantly on third-party service providers to supply and store our sensitive data in a secure manner. All of these third parties face potential risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours which could disrupt their businesses and therefore adversely impact us. While we provide guidance and specific requirements in some cases, we do not directly control any of these parties' information technology security operations, or the amount of investment they place in guarding against cybersecurity threats. Accordingly, we are subject to any flaws in or breaches to their information technology systems or those which they operate for us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Associated with Our Indebtedness and Financing We have significant debt, which could have adverse consequences . As of December 31, 2019 , we had outstanding debt of approximately $2.5 billion . This indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including, but not limited to, the following: Our unsecured credit facility and the indenture under which our unsecured debt was issued contain customary restrictions, requirements, and other limitations, as well as certain financial and operating covenants including maintenance of certain financial ratios. Maintaining compliance with these provisions could limit our financial flexibility. A default in these provisions, if uncured, 6 Table of Contents could require us to repay the indebtedness before the scheduled maturity date, which could adversely affect our liquidity and increase our financing costs. Insufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make required payments for debt obligations or pay distributions to shareholders . Substantially all of our income is derived from rental and other income from our multifamily communities. As a result, our performance depends in large part on our ability to collect rent from residents, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: Cash flow could be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest with respect to debt financing. In order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT we must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement to distribute annual dividends to our shareholders equal to a minimum of 90% of our adjusted taxable income. This requirement limits the cash available to meet required principal payments on our debt. Issuances of additional debt may adversely impact our financial condition . Our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the rental and occupancy rates of our multifamily properties, minimum dividend requirements to our equity holders, development, redevelopment and other capital expenditures, costs of operations, and potential acquisitions. If our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing earlier than anticipated. If we issue more debt, we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. We may be unable to renew, repay, or refinance our outstanding debt . We are subject to the risk our unsecured indebtedness will not be renewed, repaid, or refinanced when due or the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of the properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to pay amounts due on our debt and make distributions to our shareholders. We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method in which LIBOR is determined . Our unsecured credit facility and unsecured term loan are indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"). It is unclear whether LIBOR will continue to be calculated or published as a reference rate/benchmark after 2021. To address the potential for LIBOR’s cessation, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY), in coordination with multiple other regulators and large industry participants, convened the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“ARRC”). The ARRC has identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) as the preferred successor rate for LIBOR. We are closely monitoring the progress of the phase-out of LIBOR and incorporating relatively standardized fallback language into our LIBOR-indexed debt documents for transitioning to an alternative index (which is defined to be the index that becomes generally used by lenders and other market participants) and a spread adjustment mechanism to prevent lenders from receiving a lower rate upon transition. There is significant uncertainty with respect to how the phase-out will be implemented and what alternative index will be adopted, which will ultimately be determined by the market as a whole. It therefore remains uncertain how such changes will be implemented and the effects such changes would have on us and the financial markets generally. These changes may have a material adverse impact on the availability of financing and on our financing costs. 7 Table of Contents Rising interest rates could both increase our borrowing costs, thereby adversely affecting our cash flows and the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders, and decrease our share price, if investors seek higher yields through other investments . We have an unsecured credit facility and an unsecured term loan bearing interest at variable rates on all amounts drawn. We may incur mortgage debt or other additional variable rate debt in the future. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense, unless we make arrangements which hedge the risk of rising interest rates, and would increase the costs of refinancing existing debt and of issuing new debt. Accordingly, higher interest rates would adversely affect cash flow, net income, and cash available for payment of our debt obligations and distributions to shareholders. An environment of rising interest rates could also lead holders of our securities to seek higher yields through other investments, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares. One of the factors which may influence the price of our stock in public markets is the annual distribution rate we pay as compared with the yields on alternative investments. Failure to maintain our current credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, related margins, liquidity, and access to capital markets . Moody’s, Fitch, and Standard & Poor's, the major debt rating agencies, routinely evaluate our debt and have given us ratings of A3 with stable outlook, A- with stable outlook, and A- with stable outlook, respectively , on our senior unsecured debt as of December 31, 2019. These ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality, and sustainability of cash flow and earnings. Due to changes in market conditions, we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings, which could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, and access to capital markets. Risks Associated with Our Shares Share ownership limits and our ability to issue additional equity securities may prevent takeovers beneficial to shareholders . For us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must have 100 or more shareholders during the year and not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals. As defined for federal income tax purposes, the term “individuals” includes a number of specified entities. To minimize the possibility of us failing to qualify as a REIT under this test, our declaration of trust includes restrictions on transfers of our shares and ownership limits. The ownership limits, as well as our ability to issue other classes of equity securities, may delay, defer, or prevent a change in control. These provisions may also deter tender offers for our common shares which may be attractive to you or limit your opportunity to receive a premium for your shares which might otherwise exist if a third party were attempting to effect a change in control transaction. Our share price will fluctuate . The market price and trading volume of our common shares are subject to fluctuation due to general market conditions, the risks discussed in this report and other matters, including, but not limited to, the following: The form, timing and amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations . The form, timing and amount of dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of our Board of Trust Managers and will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements 8 Table of Contents under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors as the Board of Trust Managers may consider relevant. The Board of Trust Managers may modify the form, timing and amount of dividends from time to time.