. Those factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from any of our forward-looking statements. 43 Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times at, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking information is based on information available at the time and/or our good faith belief with respect to future events, and is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements. Such factors include, among other things, the following: 44 45 Given these uncertainties, risks and assumptions, as outlined above, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Our actual results and financial condition could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made. We assume no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information, except as may be required by law. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. A summary of our significant accounting policies is outlined in Note 1 to the financial statements. We consider our critical accounting policies to be those that require us to make significant judgments and estimates when we prepare our financial statements, including the following: Revenue Recognition: On January 1, 2018, we adopted, using the modified retrospective approach, ASU 2014-09 and ASU 2016-08, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)” and “Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net)”, respectively, which provides guidance for revenue recognition. The standard’s core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The most significant change from the adoption of the new standard relates to our estimation for the allowance for doubtful accounts. Under the previous standards, our estimate for amounts not expected to be collected based upon our historical experience, were reflected as provision for doubtful accounts, included within net revenue. Under the new standard, our estimate for amounts not expected to be collected based on historical experience will continue to be recognized as a reduction to net revenue, however, not reflected separately as provision for doubtful accounts. Under the new standard, subsequent changes in estimate of collectability due to a change in the financial status of a payer, for example a bankruptcy, will be recognized as bad debt expense in operating charges. The adoption of this ASU in 2018, and amounts recognized as bad debt expense and included in other operating expenses, did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements-Revenue Recognition , for additional disclosure related to our revenues including a disaggregation of our consolidated net revenues by major source for each of the periods presented herein. We report net patient service revenue at the estimated net realizable amounts from patients and third-party payers and others for services rendered. We have agreements with third-party payers that provide for payments to us at amounts different from our established rates. Payment arrangements include rates per discharge, reimbursed costs, discounted charges and per diem payments. Estimates of contractual allowances, which represent explicit price concessions under ASC 606, under managed care plans are based upon the payment terms specified in the related contractual agreements. We closely monitor our historical collection rates, as well as changes in applicable laws, rules and regulations and contract terms, to assure that provisions are made using the most accurate information available. However, due to the complexities involved in these estimations, actual payments from payers may be different from the amounts we estimate and record. We estimate our Medicare and Medicaid revenues using the latest available financial information, patient utilization data, government provided data and in accordance with applicable Medicare and Medicaid payment rules and regulations. The laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are extremely complex and subject to interpretation and as a result, there is at least a reasonable possibility that recorded estimates will change by material amounts in the near term. Certain types of payments by the Medicare program and state Medicaid programs (e.g. Medicare Disproportionate Share Hospital, Medicare Allowable Bad Debts and Inpatient Psychiatric Services) are subject to retroactive adjustment in future periods as a result of administrative review and audit and our estimates may vary from the final settlements. Such amounts are included in accounts receivable, net, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The funding of both federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs are subject to legislative and regulatory changes. As such, we cannot provide any assurance that future legislation and regulations, if enacted, will not have a material impact on our future Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. Adjustments related to the final settlement of these retrospectively determined amounts did not materially impact our results in 2019, 2018 or 2017. If it were to occur, each 1% adjustment to our estimated net Medicare revenues that are subject to retrospective review and settlement as of December 31, 2019, would change our after-tax net income by approximately $1 million. Charity Care, Uninsured Discounts and Other Adjustments to Revenue: Collection of receivables from third-party payers and patients is our primary source of cash and is critical to our operating performance. Our primary collection risks relate to uninsured patients and the portion of the bill which is the patient’s responsibility, primarily co-payments and deductibles. We estimate our 46 revenue adjustments for implicit price concessions based on general factors such as payer mix, the aging of the receivables and historical collection experience, consistent with our estimates for provisions for doubtful accounts under ASC 605. We routinely review accounts receivable balances in conjunction with these factors and other economic conditions which might ultimately affect the collectability of the patient accounts and make adjustments to our allowances as warranted. At our acute care hospitals, third party liability accounts are pursued until all payment and adjustments are posted to the patient account. For those accounts with a patient balance after third party liability is finalized or accounts for uninsured patients, the patient receives statements and collection letters. Under ASC 605, our hospitals established a partial reserve for self-pay accounts in the allowance for doubtful accounts for both unbilled balances and those that have been billed and were under 90 days old. All self-pay accounts were fully reserved at 90 days from the date of discharge. Third party liability accounts were fully reserved in the allowance for doubtful accounts when the balance aged past 180 days from the date of discharge. Patients that express an inability to pay were reviewed for potential sources of financial assistance including our charity care policy. If the patient was deemed unwilling to pay, the account was written-off as bad debt and transferred to an outside collection agency for additional collection effort. Under ASC 606, while similar processes and methodologies are considered, these revenue adjustments are considered at the time the services are provided in determination of the transaction price. Historically, a significant portion of the patients treated throughout our portfolio of acute care hospitals are uninsured patients which, in part, has resulted from patients who are employed but do not have health insurance or who have policies with relatively high deductibles. Patients treated at our hospitals for non-elective services, who have gross income of various amounts, dependent upon the state, ranging from 200% to 400% of the federal poverty guidelines, are deemed eligible for charity care. The federal poverty guidelines are established by the federal government and are based on income and family size. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts that qualify as charity care, the transaction price is fully adjusted and there is no impact in our net revenues or in our accounts receivable, net. A portion of the accounts receivable at our acute care facilities are comprised of Medicaid accounts that are pending approval from third-party payers but we also have smaller amounts due from other miscellaneous payers such as county indigent programs in certain states. Our patient registration process includes an interview of the patient or the patient’s responsible party at the time of registration. At that time, an insurance eligibility determination is made and an insurance plan code is assigned. There are various pre-established insurance profiles in our patient accounting system which determine the expected insurance reimbursement for each patient based on the insurance plan code assigned and the services rendered. Certain patients may be classified as Medicaid pending at registration based upon a screening evaluation if we are unable to definitively determine if they are currently Medicaid eligible. When a patient is registered as Medicaid eligible or Medicaid pending, our patient accounting system records net revenues for services provided to that patient based upon the established Medicaid reimbursement rates, subject to the ultimate disposition of the patient’s Medicaid eligibility. When the patient’s ultimate eligibility is determined, reclassifications may occur which impacts net revenues in future periods. Although the patient’s ultimate eligibility determination may result in adjustments to net revenues, these adjustments do not have a material impact on our results of operations in 2019, 2018 or 2017 since our facilities make estimates at each financial reporting period to adjust revenue based on historical collections. Under ASC 605, these estimates were reported in the provision for doubtful accounts. We also provide discounts to uninsured patients (included in “uninsured discounts” amounts below) who do not qualify for Medicaid or charity care. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts classified as uninsured discounts, the transaction price is fully adjusted and there is no impact in our net revenues or in our net accounts receivable. In implementing the discount policy, we first attempt to qualify uninsured patients for governmental programs, charity care or any other discount program. If an uninsured patient does not qualify for these programs, the uninsured discount is applied. Uncompensated care (charity care and uninsured discounts): The following table shows the amounts recorded at our acute care hospitals for charity care and uninsured discounts, based on charges at established rates, for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017: 47 The estimated cost of providing uncompensated care: The estimated cost of providing uncompensated care, as reflected below, were based on a calculation which multiplied the percentage of operating expenses for our acute care hospitals to gross charges for those hospitals by the above-mentioned total uncompensated care amounts. The percentage of cost to gross charges is calculated based on the total operating expenses for our acute care facilities divided by gross patient service revenue for those facilities. An increase in the level of uninsured patients to our facilities and the resulting adverse trends in the adjustments to net revenues and uncompensated care provided could have a material unfavorable impact on our future operating results. Self-Insured/Other Insurance Risks: We provide for self-insured risks including general and professional liability claims, workers’ compensation claims and healthcare and dental claims. Our estimated liability for self-insured professional and general liability claims is based on a number of factors including, among other things, the number of asserted claims and reported incidents, estimates of losses for these claims based on recent and historical settlement amounts, estimate of incurred but not reported claims based on historical experience, and estimates of amounts recoverable under our commercial insurance policies. All relevant information, including our own historical experience is used in estimating the expected amount of claims. While we continuously monitor these factors, our ultimate liability for professional and general liability claims could change materially from our current estimates due to inherent uncertainties involved in making this estimate. Our estimated self-insured reserves are reviewed and changed, if necessary, at each reporting date and changes are recognized currently as additional expense or as a reduction of expense. In addition, we also: (i) own commercial health insurers headquartered in Reno, Nevada, and Puerto Rico and; (ii) maintain self-insured employee benefits programs for employee healthcare and dental claims. The ultimate costs related to these programs/operations include expenses for claims incurred and paid in addition to an accrual for the estimated expenses incurred in connection with claims incurred but not yet reported. Given our significant insurance-related exposure, there can be no assurance that a sharp increase in the number and/or severity of claims asserted against us will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements-Commitments and Contingencies , for additional disclosure related to our professional and general liability, workers’ compensation liability and property insurance. Long-Lived Assets: We review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of our asset based on our estimate of its undiscounted future cash flow. If the analysis indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable from future cash flows, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value and an impairment loss is recognized. Fair values are determined based on estimated future cash flows using appropriate discount rates. Goodwill and Intangible Assets: Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or sooner if the indicators of impairment arise. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and operational performance of each reporting unit. We have designated October 1 st as our annual impairment assessment date for our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. We performed an impairment assessment as of October 1, 2019 which indicated no impairment of goodwill. There were also no goodwill impairments during 2018 or 2017. Our 2019 and 2018 financial results included aggregate pre-tax provisions for asset impairments of $98 million and $49 million, respectively, recorded in connection with Foundations Recovery Network, L.L.C. (“Foundations”), which was acquired by us in 2015. These pre-tax provisions for asset impairments include: (i) a $124 million impairment provision to write-off the carrying value of the Foundations’ tradename intangible asset ($75 million recorded during 2019 and $49 million recorded during 2018), and; (ii) a $23 million impairment provision recorded during 2019 to reduce the carrying value of real property assets of certain Foundations’ facilities. Please see below in Provision for Asset Impairment-Foundations Recovery Network for additional information. Future changes in the estimates used to conduct the impairment review, including profitability and market value projections, could indicate impairment in future periods potentially resulting in a write-off of a portion or all of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets. Income Taxes: Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the amount of taxes payable or deductible in future years as a result of differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements. We 48 believe that future income will enable us to realize our deferred tax assets net of recorded valuation allowances relating to state and foreign net operating loss carry-forwards, foreign tax credits, and interest deduction limitations. On December 22, 2017, the President of the United States signed into law comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “TCJA-17”). The TCJA-17 made broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including, but not limited to, (1) reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent; (2) requiring companies to pay a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries; (3) generally eliminating U.S. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; (4) requiring current inclusion in U.S. federal taxable income of certain earnings of controlled foreign corporations through the implementation of a territorial tax system; (5) creating a new limitation on deductible interest expense, and; (6) limiting certain other deductions. We provided a provisional estimate of the effects of the TCJA-17 in the fourth quarter of 2017 financial statements. In the fourth quarter of 2018, we completed our analysis to determine the effects of the TCJA-17 in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 as follows: Reduction of U.S. federal corporate tax rate: The TCJA-17 reduces the corporate tax rate to 21 percent, effective January 1, 2018. Deferred income taxes are based on the estimated future tax effects of differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities under the provisions of the enacted laws. For certain of our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, we recorded a provisional decrease of $97 million and $127 million, respectively, with a corresponding net adjustment to deferred tax benefit of $30 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Upon completion of our 2017 U.S. Corporate Income Tax Return, an increase of $1 million attributable to certain deferred tax assets and a decrease of $5 million attributable to certain deferred tax liabilities was recorded resulting in an additional net deferred tax benefit of $6 million. Deemed Repatriation Transition Tax: The Deemed Repatriation Transition Tax (“Transition Tax”) is a tax on previously untaxed accumulated and current earnings and profits (“E&P”) of certain of our foreign subsidiaries. The one-time Transition Tax is based upon the amount of post-1986 E&P of the relevant subsidiaries, the amount of non-U.S. income tax paid on such earnings, as well as other factors. We originally estimated and recorded a provisional Transition Tax obligation of $11.3 million. Upon completion of our 2017 U.S. Corporate Income Tax Return, the final Transition Tax increased by $100,000 for a total of $11.4 million. We operate in multiple jurisdictions with varying tax laws. We are subject to audits by any of these taxing authorities. Our tax returns have been examined by the Internal Revenue Service through the year ended December 31, 2006. We believe that adequate accruals have been provided for federal, foreign and state taxes. See Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rates below for discussion of our effective tax rates during each of the last three years. Recent Accounting Pronouncements: For a summary of recent accounting pronouncements, please see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements-Accounting Standards as included in this Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. 49 Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations, and is used in the discussion below, for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 (dollar amounts in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2018: Net revenues increased 5.6%, or $606 million, to $11.38 billion during 2019 as compared to $10.77 billion during 2018. The increase was primarily attributable to: Income before income taxes increased $32 million to $1.07 billion during 2019 as compared to $1.03 billion during 2018. The net increase in our income before income taxes during 2019, as compared to 2018, was due to the following: 50 Net income attributable to UHS increased $35 million to $815 million during 2019 as compared to $780 million during 2018. The increase consisted of: Year Ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2017: Net revenues increased 3.5% or $362 million to $10.77 billion during 2018 as compared to $10.41 billion during 2017. The increase was primarily attributable to: Income before income taxes decreased $100 million to $1.03 billion during 2018 as compared to $1.14 billion during 2017. The net decrease in our income before income taxes during 2018, as compared to 2017, was due to the following: Net income attributable to UHS increased $27 million to $780 million during 2018 as compared to $752 million during 2017. The increase consisted of: 51 Acute Care Hospital Services Year Ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2018: Acute Care Hospital Services-Same Facility Basis We believe that providing our results on a “Same Facility” basis (which is a non-GAAP measure), which includes the operating results for facilities and businesses operated in both the current year and prior year periods, is helpful to our investors as a measure of our operating performance. Our Same Facility results also neutralize (if applicable) the effect of items that are non-operational in nature including items such as, but not limited to, gains/losses on sales of assets and businesses, impacts of settlements, legal judgments and lawsuits, impairments of long-lived and intangible assets and other amounts that may be reflected in the current or prior year financial statements that relate to prior periods. Our Same Facility basis results reflected on the tables below also exclude from net revenues and other operating expenses, provider tax assessments incurred in each period as discussed below Sources of Revenue-Various State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs. However, these provider tax assessments are included in net revenues and other operating expenses as reflected in the table below under All Acute Care Hospital Services . The provider tax assessments had no impact on the income before income taxes as reflected on the tables below since the amounts offset between net revenues and other operating expenses. To obtain a complete understanding of our financial performance, the Same Facility results should be examined in connection with our net income as determined in accordance with GAAP and as presented in the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto as contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following table summarizes the results of operations for our acute care hospital services on a same facility basis and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollar amounts in thousands): On a same facility basis during 2019, as compared to 2018, net revenues from our acute care services increased $432 million or 7.7%. Income before income taxes increased $9 million or 1% to $718 million or 11.9% of net revenues during 2019 as compared to $709 million or 12.6% of net revenues during 2018. Inpatient admissions to our acute care hospitals owned during both years increased 4.6% during 2019, as compared to 2018, while patient days increased 5.4%. Adjusted admissions (adjusted for outpatient activity) increased 4.8% and adjusted patient days increased 5.7% during 2019, as compared to 2018. The average length of inpatient stay at these facilities was 4.6 days during 2019 and 4.5 days during 2018. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 64% during 2019 and 62% during 2018. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities increased 2.5% during 2019, as compared to 2018, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 1.7% during 2019, as compared to 2018. 52 All Acute Care Hospital Services The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our acute care operations during 2019 and 2018. These amounts include: (i) our acute care results on a same facility basis, as indicated above; (ii) the impact of provider tax assessments which increased net revenues and other operating expenses but had no impact on income before income taxes, and; (iii) certain other amounts including, if applicable, the results of recently acquired/opened ancillary businesses. Dollar amounts below are reflected in thousands. During 2019, as compared to 2018, net revenues generated from our acute care hospital services increased $445 million or 7.8% to $6.16 billion due primarily to: (i) a $432 million, or 7.7%, increase same facility revenues, as discussed above, and; (ii) other combined net increase of $13 million due primarily to increased provider tax assessments incurred during 2019 as compared to 2018. Income before income taxes increased $5 million to $713 million or 11.6% of net revenues during 2019 as compared to $709 million or 12.4% of net revenues during 2018. The increase resulted from the $9 million increase in income before income taxes from our acute care hospital services, on a same facility basis, as discussed above, partially offset by $4 million of other combined net unfavorable changes. Year Ended December 31, 2018 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2017: Acute Care Hospital Services-Same Facility Basis The following table summarizes the results of operations for our acute care hospital services on a same facility basis and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 (dollar amounts in thousands): 53 On a same facility basis during 2018, as compared to 2017, net revenues from our acute care services increased $246 million or 4.6%. Income before income taxes increased $52 million or 8% to $711 million or 12.7% of net revenues during 2018 as compared to $659 million or 12.3% of net revenues during 2017. Inpatient admissions to our acute care hospitals owned during both years increased 2.2% during 2018, as compared to 2017, while patient days increased 4.9%. Adjusted admissions (adjusted for outpatient activity) increased 2.1% and adjusted patient days increased 4.8% during 2018, as compared to 2017. The average length of inpatient stay at these facilities was 4.5 days during 2018 and 4.4 days during 2017. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, was 62% during 2018 and 60% during 2017. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities increased 4.1% during 2018, as compared to 2017, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 1.4% during 2018, as compared to 2017. All Acute Care Hospital Services The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our acute care operations during 2018 and 2017. These amounts include: (i) our acute care results on a same facility basis, as indicated above; (ii) the impact of the implementation of EHR applications at our acute care hospitals (beginning in 2018, the EHR impact is included in our same facility results as well as all acute care hospitals); (iii) the impact of provider tax assessments which increased net revenues and other operating expenses but had no impact on income before income taxes, and; (iv) certain other amounts that were included in our results of operations that relate to prior years, as discussed below. Dollar amounts below are reflected in thousands. During 2018, as compared to 2017, net revenues generated from our acute care hospital services increased $235 million or 4.3% to $5.72 billion due primarily to: (i) a $246 million, or 4.6%, increase same facility revenues, as discussed above, and; (ii) other combined net decrease of $11 million due primarily to $15 million of revenues received during 2017 in connection with Medicaid settlements related to prior years. Income before income taxes increased $67 million to $709 million or 12.4% of net revenues during 2018 as compared to $642 million or 11.7% of net revenues during 2017. Included in these results are the following: 54 Behavioral Health Care Services Year Ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2018 Behavioral Health Care Services-Same Facility Basis Our Same Facility basis results (which is a non-GAAP measure), which include the operating results for facilities and businesses operated in both the current year and prior year period, neutralize (if applicable) the effect of items that are non-operational in nature including items such as, but not limited to, gains/losses on sales of assets and businesses, impact of the reserve established in connection with the civil aspects of the government’s investigation of certain of our behavioral health care facilities, impacts of settlements, legal judgments and lawsuits, impairments of long-lived and intangible assets and other amounts that may be reflected in the current or prior year financial statements that relate to prior periods. Our Same Facility basis results reflected on the table below also excludes from net revenues and other operating expenses, provider tax assessments incurred in each period as discussed below Sources of Revenue-Various State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs. However, these provider tax assessments are included in net revenues and other operating expenses as reflected in the table below under All Behavioral Health Care Services . The provider tax assessments had no impact on the income before income taxes as reflected on the tables below since the amounts offset between net revenues and other operating expenses. To obtain a complete understanding of our financial performance, the Same Facility results should be examined in connection with our net income as determined in accordance with GAAP and as presented in the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto as contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following table summarizes the results of operations for our behavioral health care services, on a same facility basis, and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollar amounts in thousands): On a same facility basis during 2019, as compared to 2018, net revenues generated from our behavioral health care services increased $151 million or 3.1% to $5.06 billion during 2019 as compared to $4.91 billion during 2018. Income before income taxes increased $27 million or 3% to $1.01 billion or 20.1% of net revenues during 2019 as compared to $988 million or 20.1% of net revenues during 2018. Inpatient admissions to our behavioral health care facilities owned during both years increased 1.1% during 2019, as compared to 2018, while patient days increased 0.5%. Adjusted admissions increased 1.2% and adjusted patient days increased 0.6% during 2019, as compared to 2018. The average length of inpatient stay at these facilities were 13.1 days and 13.2 days during 2019 and 2018, respectively. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, were 76% during each of 2019 and 2018. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities increased 2.2% during 2019, as compared to 2018, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 2.7% during 2019, as compared to 2018. During 2019, as compared to longer term historical trends, admission growth slowed, in part, due to labor shortages in selected geographies which reduced our ability to fully meet the demand of patients eligible for admission. 55 All Behavioral Health Care Services The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our behavioral health care services during 2019 and 2018. These amounts include: (i) our behavioral health care results on a same facility basis, as indicated above; (ii) the impact of provider tax assessments which increased net revenues and other operating expenses but had no impact on income before income taxes; (iii) provision for asset impairments recorded during 2019 and 2018 in connection with Foundations Recovery Network, L.L.C., and; (iv) certain other amounts including the results of facilities acquired or opened during the past year as well as the results of certain facilities that were closed or restructured during the past year. Dollar amounts below are reflected in thousands. During 2019, as compared to 2018, net revenues generated from our behavioral health care services increased $171 million, or 3.4%, to $5.21 billion during 2019 as compared to $5.04 billion during 2018. The increase in net revenues was attributable to: (i) $151 million or 3.1% increase in same facility revenues, as discussed above, and; (ii) a $20 million other combined net increase consisting primarily of the revenues generated at the 25 behavioral health facilities acquired in the U.K. acquired during the third quarter of 2018 in connection with our acquisition of The Danshell Group. Income before income taxes decreased $15 million or 2% to $901 million or 17.3% of net revenues during 2019 as compared to $916 billion or 18.2% of net revenues during 2018. The decrease in income before income taxes at our behavioral health facilities was attributable to: 56 Year Ended December 31, 201 8 as compared to the Year Ended December 31, 201 7 Behavioral Health Care Services-Same Facility Basis The following table summarizes the results of operations for our behavioral health care services, on a same facility basis, and is used in the discussions below for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 (dollar amounts in thousands): On a same facility basis during 2018, as compared to 2017, net revenues generated from our behavioral health care services increased $123 million or 2.6% to $4.89 billion during 2018 as compared to $4.77 billion during 2017. Income before income taxes decreased $10 million or 1% to $998 million or 20.4% of net revenues during 2018 as compared to $1.01 billion or 21.1% of net revenues during 2017. Inpatient admissions to our behavioral health care facilities owned during both years increased 3.3% during 2018, as compared to 2017, while patient days increased 0.8%. Adjusted admissions increased 3.0% and adjusted patient days increased 0.5% during 2018, as compared to 2017. The average length of inpatient stay at these facilities were 13.2 days and 13.5 days during 2018 and 2017, respectively. The occupancy rate, based on the average available beds at these facilities, were 76% and 77% during 2018 and 2017, respectively. On a same facility basis, net revenue per adjusted admission at these facilities was unchanged during 2018, as compared to 2017, and net revenue per adjusted patient day increased 2.5% during 2018, as compared to 2017. All Behavioral Health Care Services The following table summarizes the results of operations for all our behavioral health care services during 2018 and 2017. These amounts include: (i) our behavioral health care results on a same facility basis, as indicated above; (ii) the impact of provider tax assessments which increased net revenues and other operating expenses but had no impact on income before income taxes; (iii) an intangible asset impairment charge recorded during 2018 in connection with Foundations Recovery Network, L.L.C., and; (iv) certain other amounts including the results of facilities acquired or opened during the past year as well as the results of certain facilities that were closed or restructured during the past year. Dollar amounts below are reflected in thousands. 57 During 2018, as compared to 2017, net revenues generated from our behavioral health care services increased $132 million, or 2.7%, to $5.04 billion during 2018 as compared to $4.91 billion during 2017. The increase in net revenues was attributable to: (i) $123 million or 2.6% increase in same facility revenues, as discussed above, and; (ii) an $9 million other combined net increase consisting primarily of the revenues generated at the 25 behavioral health facilities acquired in the U.K. in connection with our acquisition of The Danshell Group (acquired during the third quarter of 2018) and the revenues generated from the acquisition of a 109-bed behavioral health care facility located in Gulfport, Mississippi (acquired during the first quarter of 2018), partially offset by a decrease to net revenues resulting from the closure or restructuring of certain behavioral health care facilities. Income before income taxes decreased $53 million or 6% to $916 million or 18.2% of net revenues during 2018 as compared to $969 billion or 19.7% of net revenues during 2017. The decrease in income before income taxes at our behavioral health facilities was attributable to: Sources of Revenue Overview: We receive payments for services rendered from private insurers, including managed care plans, the federal government under the Medicare program, state governments under their respective Medicaid programs and directly from patients. Hospital revenues depend upon inpatient occupancy levels, the medical and ancillary services and therapy programs ordered by physicians and provided to patients, the volume of outpatient procedures and the charges or negotiated payment rates for such services. Charges and reimbursement rates for inpatient routine services vary depending on the type of services provided (e.g., medical/surgical, intensive care or behavioral health) and the geographic location of the hospital. Inpatient occupancy levels fluctuate for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control. The percentage of patient service revenue attributable to outpatient services has generally increased in recent years, primarily as a result of advances in medical technology that allow more services to be provided on an outpatient basis, as well as increased pressure from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurers to reduce hospital stays and provide services, where possible, on a less expensive outpatient basis. We believe that our experience with respect to our increased outpatient levels mirrors the general trend occurring in the health care industry and we are unable to predict the rate of growth and resulting impact on our future revenues. 58 Patients are generally not responsible for any difference between customary hospital charges and amounts reimbursed for such services under Medicare, Medicaid, some private insurance plans, and managed care plans, but are responsible for services not covered by such plans, exclusions, deductibles or co-insurance features of their coverage. The amount of such exclusions, deductibles and co-insurance has generally been increasing each year. Indications from recent federal and state legislation are that this trend will continue. Collection of amounts due from individuals is typically more difficult than from governmental or business payers which unfavorably impacts the collectability of our patient accounts. Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform: Given increasing budget deficits, the federal government and many states are currently considering additional ways to limit increases in levels of Medicare and Medicaid funding, which could also adversely affect future payments received by our hospitals. In addition, the uncertainty and fiscal pressures placed upon the federal government as a result of, among other things, economic recovery stimulus packages, responses to natural disasters, and the federal budget deficit in general may affect the availability of federal funds to provide additional relief in the future. We are unable to predict the effect of future policy changes on our operations. On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Legislation”). The Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Reconciliation Act”), which contains a number of amendments to the Legislation, was signed into law on March 30, 2010. Two primary goals of the Legislation, combined with the Reconciliation Act (collectively referred to as the “Legislation”), are to provide for increased access to coverage for healthcare and to reduce healthcare-related expenses. The Legislation revises reimbursement under the Medicare and Medicaid programs to emphasize the efficient delivery of high quality care and contains a number of incentives and penalties under these programs to achieve these goals. The Legislation provides for decreases in the annual market basket update for federal fiscal years 2010 through 2019, a productivity offset to the market basket update beginning October 1, 2011 for Medicare Part B reimbursable items and services and beginning October 1, 2012 for Medicare inpatient hospital services. The Legislation and subsequent revisions provide for reductions to both Medicare DSH and Medicaid DSH payments. The Medicare DSH reductions began in October, 2013 while the Medicaid DSH reductions are scheduled to begin in 2020. The Legislation implements a value-based purchasing program, which will reward the delivery of efficient care. Conversely, certain facilities will receive reduced reimbursement for failing to meet quality parameters; such hospitals will include those with excessive readmission or hospital-acquired condition rates. A 2012 U.S. Supreme Court ruling limited the federal government’s ability to expand health insurance coverage by holding unconstitutional sections of the Legislation that sought to withdraw federal funding for state noncompliance with certain Medicaid coverage requirements. Pursuant to that decision, the federal government may not penalize states that choose not to participate in the Medicaid expansion by reducing their existing Medicaid funding. Therefore, states can choose to expand or not to expand their Medicaid program without risking the loss of federal Medicaid funding. As a result, many states, including Texas, have not expanded their Medicaid programs without the threat of loss of federal funding. CMS has granted, and is expected to grant additional, section 1115 demonstration waivers providing for work and community engagement requirements for certain Medicaid eligible individuals. CMS has also released guidance to states interested in receiving their Medicaid funding through a block grant mechanism. It is anticipated this will lead to reductions in coverage, and likely increases in uncompensated care, in states where these demonstration waivers are granted. On December 14, 2018, a Texas Federal District Court deemed the Legislation to be unconstitutional in its entirety. The Court concluded that the Individual Mandate is no longer permissible under Congress’s taxing power as a result of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act of 2017 (“TCJA”) reducing the individual mandate’s tax to $0 (i.e., it no longer produces revenue, which is an essential feature of a tax), rendering the Legislation unconstitutional. The court also held that because the individual mandate is “essential” to the Legislation and is inseverable from the rest of the law, the entire Legislation is unconstitutional. Because the court issued a declaratory judgment and did not enjoin the law, the Legislation remains in place pending its appeal. The District Court for the Northern District of Texas ruling was appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. On December 18, 2019, the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals’ three-judge panel voted 2-1 to strike down the Legislation individual mandate as unconstitutional. The 5 th Circuit Court also sent the case back to the Texas district court to determine which Legislation provisions should be stricken with the mandate or whether the entire Legislation is unconstitutional. It is likely this matter will ultimately be appealed to the United States Supreme Court. We are unable to predict the final outcome of this legal challenge and its financial impact on our future results of operation. The various provisions in the Legislation that directly or indirectly affect Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years. The impact of the Legislation on healthcare providers will be subject to implementing regulations, interpretive guidance and possible future legislation or legal challenges. Certain Legislation provisions, such as that creating the Medicare Shared Savings Program creates uncertainty in how healthcare may be reimbursed by federal programs in the 59 future. Thus, we cannot predict the impact of the Legislation on our future reimbursement at this time and we can provide no assurance that the Legislation will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. The Legislation also contained provisions aimed at reducing fraud and abuse in healthcare. The Legislation amends several existing laws, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the False Claims Act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. While Congress had previously revised the intent requirement of the Anti-Kickback Statute to provide that a person is not required to “have actual knowledge or specific intent to commit a violation of” the Anti-Kickback Statute in order to be found in violation of such law, the Legislation also provides that any claims for items or services that violate the Anti-Kickback Statute are also considered false claims for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. The Legislation provides that a healthcare provider that retains an overpayment in excess of 60 days is subject to the federal civil False Claims Act. The Legislation also expands the Recovery Audit Contractor program to Medicaid. These amendments also make it easier for severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers that violate applicable laws and regulations. We have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of certain of our facilities. These investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law. The Legislation permits existing physician investments in a hospital to continue under a “grandfather” clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians are prohibited from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. The Legislation also imposes certain compliance and disclosure requirements upon existing physician-owned hospitals and restricts the ability of physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities. As discussed below, should the Legislation be repealed in its entirety, this aspect of the Legislation would also be repealed restoring physician ownership of hospitals and expansion right to its position and practice as it existed prior to the Legislation. The impact of the Legislation on each of our hospitals may vary. Because Legislation provisions are effective at various times over the next several years, we anticipate that many of the provisions in the Legislation may be subject to further revision. Initiatives to repeal the Legislation, in whole or in part, to delay elements of implementation or funding, and to offer amendments or supplements to modify its provisions have been persistent. The ultimate outcomes of legislative attempts to repeal or amend the Legislation and legal challenges to the Legislation are unknown. Legislation has already been enacted that eliminated the individual mandate penalty, effective January 1, 2019, related to the individual mandate to obtain health insurance that was part of the original Legislation. In addition, Congress previously considered legislation that would, in material part: (i) eliminate the large employer mandate to offer health insurance coverage to full-time employees; (ii) permit insurers to impose a surcharge up to 30 percent on individuals who go uninsured for more than two months and then purchase coverage; (iii) provide tax credits towards the purchase of health insurance, with a phase-out of tax credits accordingly to income level; (iv) expand health savings accounts; (v) impose a per capita cap on federal funding of state Medicaid programs, or, if elected by a state, transition federal funding to block grants, and; (vi) permit states to seek a waiver of certain federal requirements that would allow such state to define essential health benefits differently from federal standards and that would allow certain commercial health plans to take health status, including pre-existing conditions, into account in setting premiums. In addition to legislative changes, the Legislation can be significantly impacted by executive branch actions. In relevant part, President Trump has already taken executive actions: (i) requiring all federal agencies with authorities and responsibilities under the Legislation to “exercise all authority and discretion available to them to waive, defer, grant exemptions from, or delay” parts of the Legislation that place “unwarranted economic and regulatory burdens” on states, individuals or health care providers; (ii) the issuance of a final rule in June, 2018 by the Department of Labor to enable the formation of health plans that would be exempt from certain Legislation essential health benefits requirements; (iii) the issuance of a final rule in August, 2018 by the Department of Labor, Treasury, and Health and Human Services to expand the availability of short-term, limited duration health insurance; (iv) eliminating cost-sharing reduction payments to insurers that would otherwise offset deductibles and other out-of-pocket expenses for health plan enrollees at or below 250 percent of the federal poverty level, (v) relaxing requirements for state innovation waivers that could reduce enrollment in the individual and small group markets and lead to additional enrollment in short-term, limited duration insurance and association health plans; (vi) the issuance of a final rule in June, 2019 by the Departments of Labor, Treasury, and Health and Human Services that would incentivize the use of health reimbursement arrangements by employers to permit employees to purchase health insurance in the individual market, and; (vii) directing the issuance of federal rulemaking by executive agencies to increase transparency of healthcare price and quality information. The uncertainty resulting from these Executive Branch policies led to reduced Exchange enrollment in 2018, 2019 and 2020 and is expected to further worsen the individual and small group market risk pools in future years. In May, 2019, the Congressional Budget Office projected that 32 million people will be uninsured in 2020. It is also anticipated that these and future policies may create additional cost and reimbursement pressures on hospitals. It remains unclear what portions of the Legislation may remain, or whether any replacement or alternative programs may be created by any future legislation. Any such future repeal or replacement may have significant impact on the reimbursement for healthcare services generally, and may create reimbursement for services competing with the services offered by our hospitals. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the adoption of any future federal or state healthcare reform legislation will not 60 have a negative financial impact on our hospitals, including their ability to compete with alternative healthcare services funded by such potential legislation, or for our hospitals to receive payment for services. For additional disclosure related to our revenues including a disaggregation of our consolidated net revenues by major source for each of the periods presented herein, please see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements-Revenue . Medicare: Medicare is a federal program that provides certain hospital and medical insurance benefits to persons aged 65 and over, some disabled persons and persons with end-stage renal disease. All of our acute care hospitals and many of our behavioral health centers are certified as providers of Medicare services by the appropriate governmental authorities. Amounts received under the Medicare program are generally significantly less than a hospital’s customary charges for services provided. Since a substantial portion of our revenues will come from patients under the Medicare program, our ability to operate our business successfully in the future will depend in large measure on our ability to adapt to changes in this program. Under the Medicare program, for inpatient services, our general acute care hospitals receive reimbursement under the inpatient prospective payment system (“IPPS”). Under the IPPS, hospitals are paid a predetermined fixed payment amount for each hospital discharge. The fixed payment amount is based upon each patient’s Medicare severity diagnosis related group (“MS-DRG”). Every MS-DRG is assigned a payment rate based upon the estimated intensity of hospital resources necessary to treat the average patient with that particular diagnosis. The MS-DRG payment rates are based upon historical national average costs and do not consider the actual costs incurred by a hospital in providing care. This MS-DRG assignment also affects the predetermined capital rate paid with each MS-DRG. The MS-DRG and capital payment rates are adjusted annually by the predetermined geographic adjustment factor for the geographic region in which a particular hospital is located and are weighted based upon a statistically normal distribution of severity. While we generally will not receive payment from Medicare for inpatient services, other than the MS-DRG payment, a hospital may qualify for an “outlier” payment if a particular patient’s treatment costs are extraordinarily high and exceed a specified threshold. MS-DRG rates are adjusted by an update factor each federal fiscal year, which begins on October 1. The index used to adjust the MS-DRG rates, known as the “hospital market basket index,” gives consideration to the inflation experienced by hospitals in purchasing goods and services. Generally, however, the percentage increases in the MS-DRG payments have been lower than the projected increase in the cost of goods and services purchased by hospitals. In August, 2019, CMS published its IPPS 2020 final payment rule which provides for a 3.0% market basket increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates, documenting and coding adjustments, and adjustments mandated by the Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) are considered, without consideration for the required Medicare DSH payments changes and increase to the Medicare Outlier threshold, the overall increase in IPPS payments is approximately 2.8%. Including DSH payments and certain other adjustments, we estimate our overall increase from the final IPPS 2020 rule (covering the period of October 1, 2019 through September 30, 2020) will approximate 2.1%. This projected impact from the IPPS 2020 final rule includes an increase of approximately 0.5% to partially restore cuts made as a result of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (“ATRA”), as required by the 21st Century Cures Act but excludes the impact of the sequestration reductions related to the Budget Control Act of 2011, Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, and Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, as discussed below. CMS completed its full phase-in to use uncompensated care data from the 2015 Worksheet S-10 hospital cost reports to allocate approximately $8.5 billion in the DSH Uncompensated Care Pool. In June, 2019, the Supreme Court of the United States issued a decision favorable to hospitals impacting prior year Medicare DSH payments ( Azar v. Allina Health Services , No. 17-1484 (U.S. Jun. 3, 2019)). In Allina , the hospitals challenged the Medicare DSH adjustments for federal fiscal year 2012, specifically challenging CMS’s decision to include inpatient hospital days attributable to Medicare Part C enrollee patients in the numerator and denominator of the Medicare/SSI fraction used to calculate a hospital’s DSH payments. This ruling addresses CMS’s attempts to impose the policy espoused in its vacated 2004 rulemaking to a fiscal year in the 2004–2013 time period without using notice-and-comment rulemaking. This decision should require CMS to recalculate hospitals’ DSH Medicare/SSI fractions, with Medicare Part C days excluded, for at least federal fiscal year 2012, but likely federal fiscal years 2005 through 2013. Although we can provide no assurance that we will ultimately receive additional funds, we estimate that the favorable impact of this court ruling on certain prior year hospital Medicare DSH payments could range between $18 million to $28 million in the aggregate. In August, 2018, CMS published its IPPS 2019 final payment rule which provides for a 2.9% market basket increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates, documenting and coding adjustments ACA-mandated adjustments are considered, without consideration for the decreases related to the required Medicare DSH payment changes and decrease to the Medicare Outlier threshold, the overall increase in IPPS payments is approximately 0.5%. Including the estimated increase to our DSH payments (approximating 2.1%) and certain other adjustments, we estimate our overall increase from the final IPPS 2019 rule (covering the period of October 1, 2018 through September 30, 2019) will approximate 2.7%. This projected impact from the IPPS 2019 final rule includes an increase of approximately 0.5% to partially restore 61 cuts made as a result of the ATRA, as required by the 21st Century Cures Act but excludes the impact of the sequestration reductions related to the Budget Control Act of 2011, Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, and Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, as discussed below. CMS continued to phase-in the use of uncompensated care data from both the 2014 and 2015 Worksheet S-10 hospital cost reports, two-third weighting as part of the proxy methodology to allocate approximately $8 billion in the DSH Uncompensated Care Pool. In August, 2017, CMS published its IPPS 2018 final payment rule which provides for a 2.9% market basket increase to the base Medicare MS-DRG blended rate. When statutorily mandated budget neutrality factors, annual geographic wage index updates, documenting and coding adjustments and ACA-mandated adjustments are considered, without consideration for the decreases related to the required Medicare DSH payment changes and increase to the Medicare Outlier threshold, the overall increase in IPPS payments would approximate 2.3%. Including the estimated decrease to our DSH payments (approximating 0.1%) and certain other adjustments, we estimate our overall increase from the final IPPS 2018 rule (covering the period of October 1, 2017 through September 30, 2018) will approximate 1.8%. This projected impact from the IPPS 2018 final rule includes an increase of approximately 0.5% to partially restore cuts made as a result of the ATRA, as required by the 21st Century Cures Act but excludes the impact of the sequestration reductions related to the Budget Control Act of 2011, Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, and Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, as discussed below. CMS began using uncompensated care data from the 2014 hospital cost report Worksheet S-10, one-third weighting as part of the proxy methodology to allocate approximately $7 billion in the DSH Uncompensated Care Pool. This final rule change resulted in wide variations among all hospitals nationwide in the distribution of these DSH funds compared to previous years. In August, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the “2011 Act”) was enacted into law. Included in this law are the imposition of annual spending limits for most federal agencies and programs aimed at reducing budget deficits by $917 billion between 2012 and 2021, according to a report released by the Congressional Budget Office. Among its other provisions, the law established a bipartisan Congressional committee, known as the Joint Committee, which was responsible for developing recommendations aimed at reducing future federal budget deficits by an additional $1.5 trillion over 10 years. The Joint Committee was unable to reach an agreement by the November 23, 2011 deadline and, as a result, across-the-board cuts to discretionary, national defense and Medicare spending were implemented on March 1, 2013 resulting in Medicare payment reductions of up to 2% per fiscal year. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, enacted on November 2, 2015, and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019, enacted on August 2, 2019, continued the 2% reductions to Medicare reimbursement imposed under the 2011 Act through 2029. Inpatient services furnished by psychiatric hospitals under the Medicare program are paid under a Psychiatric Prospective Payment System (“Psych PPS”). Medicare payments to psychiatric hospitals are based on a prospective per diem rate with adjustments to account for certain facility and patient characteristics. The Psych PPS also contains provisions for outlier payments and an adjustment to a psychiatric hospital’s base payment if it maintains a full-service emergency department. In July, 2019, CMS published its Psych PPS final rule for the federal fiscal year 2020. Under this final rule, payments to our psychiatric hospitals and units are estimated to increase by 1.7% compared to federal fiscal year 2019. This amount includes the effect of the 2.9% market basket update less a 0.75% adjustment as required by the ACA and a 0.4% productivity adjustment. In August, 2018, CMS published its Psych PPS final rule for the federal fiscal year 2019. Under this final rule, payments to our psychiatric hospitals and units are estimated to increase by 1.35% compared to federal fiscal year 2018. This amount includes the effect of the 2.90% market basket update less a 0.75% adjustment as required by the ACA and a 0.8% productivity adjustment. In August, 2017, CMS published its Psych PPS final rule for the federal fiscal year 2018. Under this final rule, payments to our psychiatric hospitals and units are estimated to increase by 1.25% compared to federal fiscal year 2017. This amount includes the effect of the 2.6% market basket update less a 0.75% adjustment as required by the ACA and a 0.6% productivity adjustment. In December, 2018, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ruled that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) did not have statutory authority to implement the 2018 Medicare OPPS rate reduction related to hospitals that qualify for drug discounts under the federal 340B Drug Discount Program and granted a permanent injunction against the payment reduction. In May, 2019, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia directed CMS to determine a remedy as well as provide a status report on this remedy by early August, 2019 for this Medicare OPPS payment matter. However, recognizing both the complexity of the OPPS payment system as well as its budget neutral rate setting system, the Court refrained from imposing a remedy. Instead the Judge in the case called for additional briefing from the Plaintiffs and Defendants on the proper scope and implementation for relief. The case has been appealed by HHS. In the 2020 OPPS final rule, CMS retained the rate reduction in dispute, but indicated their intent to potentially use the results of a future 340B hospital survey to collect drug acquisition cost data for CY 2018 and 2019 when crafting a remedy. In the event this 340B hospital survey data is not used to devise a remedy, CMS also indicated that it intends to consider the public input to inform of the steps they would take to propose a remedy for CY 2018 and 2019 62 in the CY 2021 rulemaking. We are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of any appeal and the type of relief that may be ordered by the Courts. We estimate that the CMS 2018 change in the 340B payment policy increased our 2018 Medicare OPPS payments by approximately $8 million, which has been fully reserved in our results of operations for the year, and estimate that a comparable amount was scheduled to be earned during 2019. In November, 2019, CMS published its OPPS final rule for 2020. The hospital market basket increase is 3.0%. The Medicare statute requires a productivity adjustment reduction of 0.4% to the 2020 OPPS market basket resulting in a 2020 update to OPPS payment rates by 2.6%. When other statutorily required adjustments and hospital patient service mix are considered, we estimate that our overall Medicare OPPS update for 2020 will aggregate to a net increase of 2.7% which includes a 7.7% increase to behavioral health division partial hospitalization rates. When the behavioral health division’s partial hospitalization rate impact is excluded, we estimate that our Medicare 2020 OPPS payments will result in a 1.9% increase in payment levels for our acute care division, as compared to 2019. For CY 2020, CMS will use the FY 2020 hospital IPPS post-reclassified wage index for urban and rural areas as the wage index for the OPPS to determine the wage adjustments for both the OPPS payment rate and the copayment standardized amount. On November 15, 2019, CMS finalized its Hospital Price Transparency rule that implements certain Price Transparency rules required by the June 24, 2019 Presidential Executive Order related to Improving Price and Quality Transparency in American Healthcare to Put Patients First. Under this final rule, effective January 1, 2021, CMS will require: (1) hospitals make public their standard changes (both gross charges and payer-specific negotiated charges) for all items and services online in a machine-readable format, and; (2) hospitals to make public standard charge data for a limited set of “shoppable services” the hospital provides in a form and manner that is more consumer friendly. A lawsuit has been filed by several hospital associations, health systems, and hospitals in the U.S. District court for the District of Columbia challenging the legal authority of HHS to implement the final rule. We are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of this legal challenge and the type of relief that may be ordered by the courts. The deadline for compliance with the final rule is January 1, 2021. We are unable to determine the impact, if any, this final rule will have on our future results of operations. In November, 2018, CMS published its OPPS final rule for 2019. The hospital market basket increase is 2.9%. The Medicare statute requires a productivity adjustment reduction of 0.8% and 0.75% reduction to the 2019 OPPS market basket resulting in a 2019 update to OPPS payment rates by 1.35%. When other statutorily required adjustments and hospital patient service mix are considered, we estimate that our overall Medicare OPPS update for 2019 will aggregate to a net increase of 1.1% which includes a 5.7% increase to behavioral health division partial hospitalization rates. When the behavioral health division’s partial hospitalization rate impact is excluded, we estimate that our Medicare 2019 OPPS payments will result in a 0.4% increase in payment levels for our acute care hospitals, as compared to 2018. In November, 2017, CMS published its OPPS final rule for 2018. The hospital market basket increase is 2.7%. The Medicare statute requires a productivity adjustment reduction of 0.6% and 0.75% reduction to the 2018 OPPS market basket resulting in a 2018 OPPS market basket update at 1.35%. When other statutorily required adjustments and hospital patient service mix are considered, we estimate that our overall Medicare OPPS update for 2018 will aggregate to a net increase of 4.2% which includes a 0.8% increase to behavioral health division partial hospitalization rates. When the behavioral health division’s partial hospitalization rate impact is excluded, we estimate that our Medicare 2018 OPPS payments will result in a 4.8% increase in payment levels for our acute care division, as compared to 2017. Additionally, the Medicare inpatient-only (IPO) list includes procedures that are only paid under the Hospital Inpatient Prospective Payment System. Each year, CMS uses established criteria to review the IPO list and determine whether or not any procedures should be removed from the list. CMS removed total knee arthroplasty (TKA) from the IPO list effective January 1, 2018. Additionally, CMS redistributed $1.6 billion in cost savings within the OPPS system attributable to changes in the federal 340B hospital drug pricing payment methodology in 2018 but, as discussed above, this 340B-related payment methodology is currently under legal challenge. The impact of these IPO and 340B changes are reflected in the above noted estimated acute care division percentage change in OPPS reimbursement. In November, 2016, CMS published its OPPS final rule for 2017. The hospital market basket increase is 2.7%. The Medicare statute requires a productivity adjustment reduction of 0.3% and 0.75% reduction to the 2017 OPPS market basket resulting in a 2017 OPPS market basket update at 1.65%. When other statutorily required adjustments and hospital patient service mix are considered, we estimate that our overall Medicare OPPS update for 2017 resulted in a net increase of 1.5% which included a -1.3% decrease to behavioral health division partial hospitalization rates. When the behavioral health division’s partial hospitalization rate impact is excluded, we estimate that our Medicare 2017 OPPS payments resulted in a 2.1% increase in payment levels for our acute care division, as compared to 2016. 63 Medicaid: Medicaid is a joint federal-state funded health care benefit program that is administered by the states to provide benefits to qualifying individuals. Most state Medicaid payments are made under a PPS-like system, or under programs that negotiate payment levels with individual hospitals. Amounts received under the Medicaid program are generally significantly less than a hospital’s customary charges for services provided. In addition to revenues received pursuant to the Medicare program, we receive a large portion of our revenues either directly from Medicaid programs or from managed care companies managing Medicaid. All of our acute care hospitals and most of our behavioral health centers are certified as providers of Medicaid services by the appropriate governmental authorities. We receive revenues from various state and county based programs, including Medicaid in all the states in which we operate (we receive Medicaid revenues in excess of $100 million annually from each of California, Texas, Nevada, Washington, D.C., Pennsylvania and Illinois); CMS-approved Medicaid supplemental programs in certain states including Texas, Mississippi, Illinois, Oklahoma, Nevada, Arkansas, California and Indiana, and; state Medicaid disproportionate share hospital payments in certain states including Texas and South Carolina. We are therefore particularly sensitive to potential reductions in Medicaid and other state based revenue programs as well as regulatory, economic, environmental and competitive changes in those states. We can provide no assurance that reductions to revenues earned pursuant to these programs, particularly in the above-mentioned states, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. The Legislation substantially increases the federally and state-funded Medicaid insurance program, and authorizes states to establish federally subsidized non-Medicaid health plans for low-income residents not eligible for Medicaid starting in 2014. However, the Supreme Court has struck down portions of the Legislation requiring states to expand their Medicaid programs in exchange for increased federal funding. Accordingly, many states in which we operate have not expanded Medicaid coverage to individuals at 133% of the federal poverty level. Facilities in states not opting to expand Medicaid coverage under the Legislation may be additionally penalized by corresponding reductions to Medicaid disproportionate share hospital payments beginning in 2020, as discussed below. We can provide no assurance that further reductions to Medicaid revenues, particularly in the above-mentioned states, will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. On November 12, 2019, CMS issued the proposed Medicaid Fiscal Accountability Rule (“MFAR”) for which CMS believes will strengthen the fiscal integrity of the Medicaid program and help ensure that state supplemental payments and financing arrangements are transparent and value-driven. This rule proposes to establish regulations to: • Improve Reporting on Medicaid Supplemental Payments. • Clarify Medicaid Financing Definitions. • Reduce what CMS considers “Questionable Financing Mechanisms” by states. • Clarifies the Definition of Permissible Health Care-Related Taxes and Donations. • Implement certain Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) Payment related changes. The MFAR proposed rule, if implemented, could have a significant impact on the means by which states finance the non-federal share of their Medicaid programs. Under the proposal, CMS would have the ability to strike down common financing arrangements such as provider taxes, intergovernmental transfers and donations. These changes could have detrimental impacts on state Medicaid programs. If finalized as proposed, the rule could potentially force states to raise taxes or cut their Medicaid budgets. In subsequent years, it could have an unfavorable impact on Medicaid beneficiaries by likely limiting access to providers and requiring states to consider reductions to their Medicaid programs. As disclosed in this annual report, we receive a significant amount of Medicaid and Medicaid managed care revenue from both base payments and supplemental payments. Although we are unable to estimate the impact of MFAR on our future results of operations, if implemented as proposed, MFAR related changes could have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations. In January, 2020, CMS announced a new opportunity to support states with greater flexibility to improve the health of their Medicaid populations. The new 1115 Waiver Block Grant Type Demonstration program, titled Healthy Adult Opportunity (“HAO”), emphasizes the concept of value-based care while granting states extensive flexibility to administer and design their programs within a defined budget. CMS believes this state opportunity will enhance the Medicaid program’s integrity through its focus on accountability for results and quality improvement, making the Medicaid program stronger for states and beneficiaries. The HAO program will include: 64 We are unable to predict whether any states will opt to apply for participation in the HAO demonstration or the impact on our future results of operations. Various State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs: We incur health-care related taxes (“Provider Taxes”) imposed by states in the form of a licensing fee, assessment or other mandatory payment which are related to: (i) healthcare items or services; (ii) the provision of, or the authority to provide, the health care items or services, or; (iii) the payment for the health care items or services. Such Provider Taxes are subject to various federal regulations that limit the scope and amount of the taxes that can be levied by states in order to secure federal matching funds as part of their respective state Medicaid programs. As outlined below, we derive a related Medicaid reimbursement benefit from assessed Provider Taxes in the form of Medicaid claims based payment increases and/or lump sum Medicaid supplemental payments. Included in these Provider Tax programs are reimbursements received in connection with the Texas Uncompensated Care/Upper Payment Limit program (“UC/UPL”) and Texas Delivery System Reform Incentive Payments program (“DSRIP”). Additional disclosure related to the Texas UC/UPL and DSRIP programs is provided below. Texas Uncompensated Care/Upper Payment Limit Payments: Certain of our acute care hospitals located in various counties of Texas (Grayson, Hidalgo, Maverick, Potter and Webb) participate in Medicaid supplemental payment Section 1115 Waiver indigent care programs. Section 1115 Waiver Uncompensated Care (“UC”) payments replace the former Upper Payment Limit (“UPL”) payments. These hospitals also have affiliation agreements with third-party hospitals to provide free hospital and physician care to qualifying indigent residents of these counties. Our hospitals receive both supplemental payments from the Medicaid program and indigent care payments from third-party, affiliated hospitals. The supplemental payments are contingent on the county or hospital district making an Inter-Governmental Transfer (“IGT”) to the state Medicaid program while the indigent care payment is contingent on a transfer of funds from the applicable affiliated hospitals. However, the county or hospital district is prohibited from entering into an agreement to condition any IGT on the amount of any private hospital’s indigent care obligation. For state fiscal year 2017, Texas Medicaid continued to operate under a CMS-approved Section 1115 five-year Medicaid waiver demonstration program extended by CMS for fifteen months to December 31, 2017. During the first five years of this program that started in state fiscal year 2012, the THHSC transitioned away from UPL payments to new waiver incentive payment programs, UC and DSRIP payments. During demonstration periods ending December 31, 2017, THHSC continued to, make incentive payments under the program after certain qualifying criteria were met by hospitals. Supplemental payments are also subject to aggregate statewide caps based on CMS approved Medicaid waiver amounts. On December 21, 2017, CMS approved the 1115 Waiver for the period January 1, 2018 to September 30, 2022. The Waiver continued to include UC and DSRIP payment pools with modifications and new state specific reporting deadlines that if not met by THHSC will result in material decreases in the size of the UC and DSRIP pools. For UC during the initial two years of this renewal, the UC program will remain relatively the same in size and allocation methodology. For year three of this waiver renewal, FFY 2020, and through FFY 2022, the size and distribution of the UC pool will be determined based on charity care costs reported to HHSC in 65 accordance with Medicare cost report Worksheet S-10 principles. In September 2019, CMS approved the annual UC pool size in the amount of $3.9 billion for demonstration years (“DYs”) 9, 10 and 11 (October 1, 2019 to September 30, 2022). We estimate the impact on of these UC program changes could result in a 5% to 10% increase to UC payments in DYs 9 to 11 as compared to our DY 8 UC payments. Effective April 1, 2018, certain of our acute care hospitals located in Texas began to receive Medicaid managed care rate enhancements under the Uniform Hospital Rate Increase Program (“UHRIP”). The non-federal share component of these UHRIP rate enhancements are financed by Provider Taxes. The Texas 1115 Waiver rules require UHRIP rate enhancements be considered in the Texas UC payment methodology which results in a reduction to our UC payments. The UC amounts reported in the State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Program Table below reflect the impact of this new UHRIP program. In February, 2020, THHSC announced the UHRIP pool for the state’s 2021 fiscal year will increase to $3.0 billion from its current funding level of $1.6 billion. We estimate that this change, if approved by CMS, will favorably impact our annual results of operations by approximately $12 million during that period, of which approximately $4 million relates to the year ended December 31, 2020. On November 16, 2018, THHSC published a final rule effective in federal fiscal years 2018 and 2019 that changes the definition of a rural hospital for the purposes of determining Texas UC payments and the applicable UC payment reduction. The application of UC payment reduction allows the THHSC to comply with the overall statewide UC payment cap required under the special terms and condition of the approved 1115 Waiver. Two of our acute care hospitals, which have been designated as a Rural Referral Center by CMS and which are located in an urban Metropolitan Statistical Area, recorded: (i) increased UC payments/revenue for the federal fiscal year ending September 30, 2018, and; (ii) decreased UC payments/revenue for the federal fiscal year beginning October 1, 2018. The net impact of these changes had a favorable impact on our 2018 results of operations and are included in the amounts reflected below in the State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Program table. Texas Delivery System Reform Incentive Payments: In addition, the Texas Medicaid Section 1115 Waiver includes a DSRIP pool to incentivize hospitals and other providers to transform their service delivery practices to improve quality, health status, patient experience, coordination, and cost-effectiveness. DSRIP pool payments are incentive payments to hospitals and other providers that develop programs or strategies to enhance access to health care, increase the quality of care, the cost-effectiveness of care provided and the health of the patients and families served. In May, 2014, CMS formally approved specific DSRIP projects for certain of our hospitals for demonstration years 3 to 5 (our facilities did not materially participate in the DSRIP pool during demonstration years 1 or 2). DSRIP payments are contingent on the hospital meeting certain pre-determined milestones, metrics and clinical outcomes. Additionally, DSRIP payments are contingent on a governmental entity providing an IGT for the non-federal share component of the DSRIP payment. THHSC generally approves DSRIP reported metrics, milestones and clinical outcomes on a semi-annual basis in June and December. Under the CMS approval noted above, the Waiver renewal requires the transition of the DSRIP program to one focused on "health system performance measurement and improvement." THHSC must submit a transition plan describing "how it will further develop its delivery system reforms without DSRIP funding and/or phase out DSRIP funded activities and meet mutually agreeable milestones to demonstrate its ongoing progress." The size of the DSRIP pool will remain unchanged for the initial two years of the waiver renewal with unspecified decreases in years three and four of the renewal, FFY 2020 and 2021, respectively. In FFY 2022, DSRIP funding under the waiver is eliminated. For FFY 2020 and 2021, we estimate these changes will result in a $3 million and $4 million decrease in DSRIP payments, respectively. For FFY 2022, we will no longer receive DSRIP funds due to the elimination of this funding source by CMS in the Waiver renewal. In September 2019, HHSC submitted a DSRIP Transition Plan to CMS as required by the 1115 Waiver Special Terms and Conditions #37 that outlines a transition from the current DSRIP program to a Value-Based Purchasing (“VBP”) type payment model. The draft plan will be finalized with CMS by March 31, 2020. The effective date of the new VBP payment model (if approved by CMS) is not yet known. Similarly, details of the VBP model are still under development. As a result, we are unable to estimate the financial impact of this payment change. Summary of Amounts Related To The Above-Mentioned Various State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Programs: The following table summarizes the revenues, Provider Taxes and net benefit related to each of the above-mentioned Medicaid supplemental programs for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. The Provider Taxes are recorded in other operating expenses on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income as included herein. 66 Included in the 2019 Texas UC/UPL amounts reflected above was approximately $12 million received during the third quarter of 2019 (approximately $3 million of which relates to prior years). We estimate that our aggregate net benefit from the Texas and various other state Medicaid supplemental payment programs will approximate $214 million (net of Provider Taxes of $207 million) during the year ending December 31, 2020. This estimate is based upon various terms and conditions that are out of our control including, but not limited to, the states’/CMS’s continued approval of the programs and the applicable hospital district or county making IGTs consistent with 2019 levels. Future changes to these terms and conditions could materially reduce our net benefit derived from the programs which could have a material adverse impact on our future consolidated results of operations. In addition, Provider Taxes are governed by both federal and state laws and are subject to future legislative changes that, if reduced from current rates in several states, could have a material adverse impact on our future consolidated results of operations. Texas and South Carolina Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital Payments: Hospitals that have an unusually large number of low-income patients (i.e., those with a Medicaid utilization rate of at least one standard deviation above the mean Medicaid utilization, or having a low income patient utilization rate exceeding 25%) are eligible to receive a DSH adjustment. Congress established a national limit on DSH adjustments. Although this legislation and the resulting state broad-based provider taxes have affected the payments we receive under the Medicaid program, to date the net impact has not been materially adverse. Upon meeting certain conditions and serving a disproportionately high share of Texas’ and South Carolina’s low income patients, five of our facilities located in Texas and one facility located in South Carolina received additional reimbursement from each state’s DSH fund. The South Carolina and Texas DSH programs were renewed for each state’s 2020 DSH fiscal year (covering the period of October 1, 2019 through September 30, 2020). In connection with these DSH programs, included in our financial results was an aggregate of approximately $50 million during 2019, $38 million during 2018 and $34 million during 2017. We expect the aggregate reimbursements to our hospitals pursuant to the Texas and South Carolina 2020 fiscal year programs to be approximately $32 million. The Legislation and subsequent federal legislation provides for a significant reduction in Medicaid disproportionate share payments beginning in federal fiscal year 2020 (see below in Sources of Revenues and Health Care Reform-Medicaid Revisions for additional disclosure related to the delay of these DSH reductions). The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services is to determine the amount of Medicaid DSH payment cuts imposed on each state based on a defined methodology. As Medicaid DSH payments to states will be cut, consequently, payments to Medicaid-participating providers, including our hospitals in Texas and South Carolina, will be reduced in the coming years. Based on the CMS final rule published in September, 2019, beginning in fiscal year 2020, annual Medicaid DSH payments in South Carolina and Texas could be reduced by approximately 32% and 23%, respectively, from 2019 DSH payment levels. 67 Our behavioral health care facilities in Texas have been receiving Medicaid DSH payments since FFY 2016. As with all Medicaid DSH payments, hospitals are subject to state audits that typically occur up to three years after their receipt. DSH payments are subject to a federal Hospital Specific Limit (“HSL”) and are not fully known until the DSH audit results are concluded. In general, freestanding psychiatric hospitals tend to provide significantly less charity care than acute care hospitals and therefore are at more risk for retroactive recoupment of prior year DSH payments in excess of their respective HSL. In light of the retroactive HSL audit risk for freestanding psychiatric hospitals, we have established DSH reserves for our facilities that have been receiving funds since FFY 2016. These DSH reserves are also impacted by the resolution of federal DSH litigation related to Children’s Hospital Association of Texas v. Azar (“CHAT”), No. 17-cv-844 (D.D.C. March 2, 2018), appeal docketed, No. 18-5135 (D.C. Cir. May 9, 2018) where the calculation of HSL was being challenged. In August, 2019, DC Circuit Court of Appeals issued a unanimous decision in CHAT and reversed the judgment of the district court in favor of CMS and ordered that CMS’s “2017 Rule” (regarding Medicaid DSH Payments—Treatment of Third Party Payers in Calculating Uncompensated Care Costs) be reinstated. CMS has not issued any additional guidance post the ruling and it is unclear if the plaintiffs in the case will appeal the decision to the Supreme Court of the United States. Separate legal challenges on this same issue are pending in circuit courts in the Fifth and Sixth Circuits. Additionally, on November 4, 2019, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit issued an opinion upholding the 2017 Rule. Missouri Hosp. Ass’n v. Azar, No. 18-1778 (8th Cir. Nov. 4, 2019) (i.e. reversing a district court order enjoining the 2017 rule). This legal activity may impact CMS’s guidance on the 2017 Rule regarding the federal HSL. The cumulative Medicaid DSH and UC reimbursements related to our behavioral health hospitals located in Texas, that have been reserved for in our financial statements related to these matters, amounted to $34 million and $19 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Nevada SPA: In Nevada, CMS approved a state plan amendment (“SPA”) in August, 2014 that implemented a hospital supplemental payment program retroactive to January 1, 2014. This SPA has been approved for additional state fiscal years including the 2020 fiscal year covering the period of July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020. In connection with this program, included in our financial results was approximately $28 million during 2019, $26 million during 2018 and $21 million during 2017. We estimate that our reimbursements pursuant to this program will approximate $28 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. California SPA: In California, CMS issued formal approval of the 2017-19 Hospital Fee Program in December, 2017 retroactive to January 1, 2017 through June 30, 2019. This approval included the Medicaid inpatient and outpatient fee-for-service supplemental payments and the overall provider tax structure but did not yet include the approval of the managed care payment component. Upon approval by CMS, the managed care payment component will consist of two categories of payments, “pass-through” payments and “directed” payments. The pass-through payments will be similar in nature to the prior Hospital Fee Program payment method whereas the directed payment method will be based on actual concurrent hospital Medicaid managed care in-network patient volume. CMS has approved the “directed” payment component methodology for the period of July 1, 2017 through June 30, 2019. The timing of CMS’s approval of the “pass through” component is uncertain. In September, 2019, the state submitted a request to renew the Hospital Fee Program for the period July 1, 2019 to December 31, 2021. The timing of CMS’s approval of this new program is uncertain. In connection with the existing program, included in our financial results was approximately $29 million during 2019, $25 million during 2018 and $14 million during 2017. We estimate that our reimbursements pursuant to this program will approximate $29 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. The aggregate impact of the California supplemental payment program, as outlined above, is included in the above State Medicaid Supplemental Payment Program table. Risk Factors Related To State Supplemental Medicaid Payments: As outlined above, we receive substantial reimbursement from multiple states in connection with various supplemental Medicaid payment programs. The states include, but are not limited to, Texas, Mississippi, Illinois, Nevada, Arkansas, California and Indiana. Failure to renew these programs beyond their scheduled termination dates, failure of the public hospitals to provide the necessary IGTs for the states’ share of the DSH programs, failure of our hospitals that currently receive supplemental Medicaid revenues to qualify for future funds under these programs, or reductions in reimbursements, could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. In April, 2016, CMS published its final Medicaid Managed Care Rule which explicitly permits but phases out the use of pass-through payments (including supplemental payments) by Medicaid Managed Care Organizations (“MCO”) to hospitals over ten years but allows for a transition of the pass-through payments into value-based payment structures, delivery system reform initiatives or payments tied to services under a MCO contract. Since we are unable to determine the financial impact of this aspect of the final rule, we can provide no assurance that the final rule will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. In 68 November, 2018, CMS issued a proposed rule that would permit pass-through supplemental provider payments during a time-limited period when states transition populations or services from fee-for-service Medicaid to managed care. HITECH Act: In July 2010, the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) published final regulations implementing the health information technology (“HIT”) provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (referred to as the “HITECH Act”). The final regulation defines the “meaningful use” of Electronic Health Records (“EHR”) and establishes the requirements for the Medicare and Medicaid EHR payment incentive programs. The final rule established an initial set of standards and certification criteria. The implementation period for these new Medicare and Medicaid incentive payments started in federal fiscal year 2011 and can end as late as 2016 for Medicare and 2021 for the state Medicaid programs. State Medicaid program participation in this federally funded incentive program is voluntary but all of the states in which our eligible hospitals operate have chosen to participate. Our acute care hospitals qualified for these EHR incentive payments upon implementation of the EHR application assuming they meet the “meaningful use” criteria. The government’s ultimate goal is to promote more effective (quality) and efficient healthcare delivery through the use of technology to reduce the total cost of healthcare for all Americans and utilizing the cost savings to expand access to the healthcare system. Pursuant to HITECH Act regulations, hospitals that do not qualify as a meaningful user of EHR by 2015 are subject to a reduced market basket update to the IPPS standardized amount in 2015 and each subsequent fiscal year. We believe that all of our acute care hospitals have met the applicable meaningful use criteria and therefore are not subject to a reduced market basked update to the IPPS standardized amount in federal fiscal year 2015. However, under the HITECH Act, hospitals must continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria in each fiscal year or they will be subject to a market basket update reduction in a subsequent fiscal year. Failure of our acute care hospitals to continue to meet the applicable meaningful use criteria would have an adverse effect on our future net revenues and results of operations. Federal regulations require that Medicare EHR incentive payments be computed based on the Medicare cost report that begins in the federal fiscal period in which a hospital meets the applicable “meaningful use” requirements. Since the annual Medicare cost report periods for each of our acute care hospitals ends on December 31 st , we will recognize Medicare EHR incentive income for each hospital during the fourth quarter of the year in which the facility meets the “meaningful use” criteria and during the fourth quarter of each applicable subsequent year. In the 2019 IPPS final rule, CMS overhauled the Medicare and Medicaid EHR Incentive Program to focus on interoperability, improve flexibility, relieve burden and place emphasis on measures that require the electronic exchange of health information between providers and patients. We can provide no assurance that the changes will not have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations. Managed Care: A significant portion of our net patient revenues are generated from managed care companies, which include health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations and managed Medicare (referred to as Medicare Part C or Medicare Advantage) and Medicaid programs. In general, we expect the percentage of our business from managed care programs to continue to grow. The consequent growth in managed care networks and the resulting impact of these networks on the operating results of our facilities vary among the markets in which we operate. Typically, we receive lower payments per patient from managed care payers than we do from traditional indemnity insurers, however, during the past few years we have secured price increases from many of our commercial payers including managed care companies. Commercial Insurance: Our hospitals also provide services to individuals covered by private health care insurance. Private insurance carriers typically make direct payments to hospitals or, in some cases, reimburse their policy holders, based upon the particular hospital’s established charges and the particular coverage provided in the insurance policy. Private insurance reimbursement varies among payers and states and is generally based on contracts negotiated between the hospital and the payer. Commercial insurers are continuing efforts to limit the payments for hospital services by adopting discounted payment mechanisms, including predetermined payment or DRG-based payment systems, for more inpatient and outpatient services. To the extent that such efforts are successful and reduce the insurers’ reimbursement to hospitals and the costs of providing services to their beneficiaries, such reduced levels of reimbursement may have a negative impact on the operating results of our hospitals. Other Sources: Our hospitals provide services to individuals that do not have any form of health care coverage. Such patients are evaluated, at the time of service or shortly thereafter, for their ability to pay based upon federal and state poverty guidelines, qualifications for Medicaid or other state assistance programs, as well as our local hospitals’ indigent and charity care policy. Patients without health care coverage who do not qualify for Medicaid or indigent care write-offs are offered substantial discounts in an effort to settle their outstanding account balances. 69 Health Care Reform: Listed below are the Medicare, Medicaid and other health care industry changes which have been, or are scheduled to be, implemented as a result of the Legislation . Implemented Medicare Reductions and Reforms: Medicaid Revisions: Health Insurance Revisions: The Legislation seeks to increase competition among private health insurers by providing for transparent federal and state insurance exchanges. The Legislation also prohibits private insurers from adjusting insurance premiums based on health status, gender, or other specified factors. We cannot provide assurance that these provisions will not adversely affect the ability of private insurers to pay for services provided to insured patients, or that these changes will not have a negative material impact on our results of operations going forward. Value-Based Purchasing: There is a trend in the healthcare industry toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services. These value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. Governmental programs including Medicare and Medicaid currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition, Medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events. Many large commercial payers currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payers do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. The Legislation required HHS to implement a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services which became effective on October 1, 2012. The Legislation requires HHS to reduce inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by a percentage beginning at 1% in FFY 2013 and increasing by 0.25% each fiscal year up to 2% in FFY 2017 and subsequent years. HHS will pool the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by HHS. HHS will determine the amount each hospital that meets or exceeds the quality performance standards will receive from the pool of dollars created by these payment reductions. In its fiscal year 2016 IPPS final rule, CMS funded the 70 value-based purchasing program by reducing base operating DRG payment amounts to participating hospitals by 1.75%. For FFY 2017 and subsequent years , this reduction was increased to its maximum of 2%. Hospital Acquired Conditions: The Legislation prohibits the use of federal funds under the Medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat hospital acquired conditions (“HAC”). Beginning in FFY 2015, hospitals that fall into the top 25% of national risk-adjusted HAC rates for all hospitals in the previous year will receive a 1% reduction in their total Medicare payments. Readmission Reduction Program: In the Legislation, Congress also mandated implementation of the hospital readmission reduction program (“HRRP”). Hospitals with excessive readmissions for conditions designated by HHS will receive reduced payments for all inpatient discharges, not just discharges relating to the conditions subject to the excessive readmission standard. The HRRP currently assesses penalties on hospitals having excess readmission rates for heart failure, myocardial infarction, pneumonia, acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and elective total hip arthroplasty (THA) and/or total knee arthroplasty (TKA), excluding planned readmissions, when compared to expected rates. In the fiscal year 2015 IPPS final rule, CMS added readmissions for coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgical procedures beginning in fiscal year 2017. To account for excess readmissions, an applicable hospital's base operating DRG payment amount is adjusted for each discharge occurring during the fiscal year. Readmissions payment adjustment factors can be no more than a 3 percent reduction. Accountable Care Organizations: The Legislation requires HHS to establish a Medicare Shared Savings Program that promotes accountability and coordination of care through the creation of accountable care organizations (“ACOs”). The ACO program allows providers (including hospitals), physicians and other designated professionals and suppliers to voluntarily work together to invest in infrastructure and redesign delivery processes to achieve high quality and efficient delivery of services. The program is intended to produce savings as a result of improved quality and operational efficiency. ACOs that achieve quality performance standards established by HHS will be eligible to share in a portion of the amounts saved by the Medicare program. CMS is also developing and implementing more advanced ACO payment models, such as the Next Generation ACO Model, which require ACOs to assume greater risk for attributed beneficiaries. On December 21, 2018, CMS published a final rule that, in general, requires ACO participants to take on additional risk associated with participation in the program. It remains unclear to what extent providers will pursue federal ACO status or whether the required investment would be warranted by increased payment. Bundled Payments for Care Improvement Advanced: The Center for Medicare & Medicaid Innovation (“CMMI”) is responsible for establishing demonstration projects and other initiatives aimed to develop, test and encourage the adoption of new methods for delivery and payment for health care that create savings under the Federal Medicare and state Medicaid programs while improving quality of care. For example, providers participating in bundled payment initiatives agree to receive one payment for services provided to Medicare beneficiaries for certain medical conditions or episodes of care, accepting accountability for costs and quality of care across the continuum of care. By rewarding providers for increasing quality and reducing costs, and penalizing providers if costs exceed a set amount, these models are intended to lead to higher quality and more coordinated care at a lower cost to the Medicare beneficiary and overall program. The CMMI has previously implemented a voluntary bundled payment program known as the Bundled Payment for Care Improvement (“BPCI”). Substantially all of our acute care hospitals were participants in the BPCI program, which ended September 30, 2018. CMMI implemented a new, second generation voluntary episode payment model, Bundled Payments for Care Improvement Advanced (BPCI-Advanced or the Program), with the first performance period beginning October 1, 2018. BPCI-Advanced is designed to test a new iteration of bundled payments for 32 Clinical Episodes (29 inpatient and 3 outpatient) with an aim to align incentives among participating health care providers to reduce expenditures and improve quality of care for traditional Medicare beneficiaries. The first cohort of participants entered BPCI-Advanced on October 1, 2018, and agreed to an initial performance period that will run through December 31, 2023. We initially elected to participate in BPCI-Advanced at seventeen (17) of our acute care hospitals across almost two hundred (200) clinical episodes in collaboration with a third-party convener which has extensive experience and success in BPCI. A second BPCI-Advanced cohort started January 1, 2020 where our participation in the program increased to twenty-two (22) acute care hospitals with over three hundred (300) clinical episodes. The ultimate success and financial impact of the BPCI-Advanced program is contingent on multiple variables so we are unable to estimate the impact. However, given the breadth and scope of participation of our acute care hospitals in BPCI-Advanced, the impact could be significant (either favorably or unfavorably) depending on actual program results. In addition to statutory and regulatory changes to the Medicare and each of the state Medicaid programs, our operations and reimbursement may be affected by administrative rulings, new or novel interpretations and determinations of existing laws and regulations, post-payment audits, requirements for utilization review and new governmental funding restrictions, all of which may 71 materially increase or decrease program payments as well as affect the cost of providing services and the timing of payments to our facilities. The final determination of amounts we receive under the Medicare and Medicaid programs often takes many years, because of audits by the program representatives, providers’ rights of appeal and the application of numerous technical reimbursement provisions. We believe that we have made adequate provisions for such potential adjustments. Nevertheless, until final adjustments are made, certain issues remain unresolved and previously determined allowances could become either inadequate or more than ultimately required. Finally, we expect continued third-party efforts to aggressively manage reimbursement levels and cost controls. Reductions in reimbursement amounts received from third-party payers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results. Other Operating Results Interest Expense Reflected below are the components of our interest expense which amounted to $163 million during 2019, $155 million during 2018 and $145 million during 2017 (amounts in thousands): 72 The credit agreement, as amended in October, 2018, consists of: (i) an $1 billion revolving credit facility (there are no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2019); (ii) a term loan A facility with $2.0 billion of outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2019, and; (iii) a term loan B facility with $500 million of outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2019. Interest expense increased $8 million during 2019 to $163 million as compared to $155 million during 2018. The increase was due primarily to an increase in our aggregate average cost of borrowings pursuant to our revolving credit, demand notes, senior notes, term loan A and B facilities and accounts receivable securitization program facilities. The average cost of borrowings on these facilities increased to 4.0% during 2019, as compared to 3.8% during 2018, on average outstanding borrowings of approximately $4.0 billion during each year. Interest expense increased $10 million during 2018 to $155 million as compared to $145 million during 2017. The increase was due primarily to: (i) a net increase of $23 million in aggregate interest expense on our revolving credit, demand notes, senior notes, term loan A and B facilities and accounts receivable securitization program resulting from an increase in our aggregate average cost of borrowings pursuant to these facilities (3.8% during 2018, as compared to 3.2% during 2017, on average outstanding borrowings of approximately $4.0 billion during each year), partially offset by; (ii) a $9 million decrease in the interest rate swap expense; (iii) a $3 million combined increase in capitalized interest and interest income, and; (iv) $1 million of other combined net decreases. The aggregate average effective interest rate, including amortization of deferred financing costs, original issue discounts and designated interest rate swap expense, on borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit, demand notes, senior notes, term loan A and B facilities and accounts receivable securitization program (which amounted to approximately $4.0 billion during each of 2019, 2018 and 2017), were 4.0% during 2019, 3.8% during 2018 and 3.5% during 2017. Costs Related to Early Extinguishment of Debt In connection with various financing transaction completed during the year, as discussed below in Capital Resources-Credit Agreements and Outstanding Debt Securities , our 2018 results of operations include a $4 million pre-tax charge incurred for the costs related to the extinguishment of debt. This charge, which was included in other operating expenses, consisted of the write-off of deferred charges ($3 million) as well as the make-whole premium paid ($1 million) on the early redemption of the $300 million, 3.75% senior notes which were scheduled to mature in 2019. Provision for Asset Impairment-Foundations Recovery Network: Our financial results for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 include pre-tax provisions for asset impairments of approximately $98 million and $49 million, respectively, recorded in connection with Foundations Recovery Network, L.L.C. (“Foundations”), which was acquired by us in 2015. 73 The pre-tax provision for asset impairment recording during 2019 includes: (i) a $75 million impairment provision to write-off the carrying value of the Foundations’ tradename intangible asset, and; (ii) a $23 million impairment provision to reduce the carrying value of real property assets of certain Foundations’ facilities. The $49 million pre-tax provision for asset impairment recorded during 2018 reduced the carrying value of a tradename intangible asset to approximately $75 million from its original value of approximately $124 million . The provision for asset impairment recorded during 2019, which is included in other operating expenses in our consolidated statements of income, was recorded after evaluation of the estimated fair value of the Foundations’ tradename as well as certain related real property assets. The provision for asset impairment was impacted by the following: (i) decisions made by management during 2019 to cancel the opening of future planned de novo facilities; (ii) reductions in projected future patient volumes, revenues and cash flows resulting from continued operating trends and financial results experienced by existing facilities that significantly lagged expectations, and; (iii) competitive pressures experienced in certain markets that were deemed to be permanent. The provision for asset impairment recorded during 2018, which is also included in other operating expenses, was recorded after an evaluation, at that time, of the estimated fair value of the Foundations’ tradename for its existing facilities, consisting of 4 inpatient and 12 outpatient facilities as of December 31, 2018, as well as estimated planned de novos. The 2018 asset impairment charge was impacted by the following: (i) the lost future revenue and cash flows resulting from the permanent closure of a Foundations’ inpatient facility located in Malibu, California that was severely damaged in the California wildfires during the fourth quarter of 2018; (ii) reduction in growth rates of projected future patient volumes, revenues and operating cash flows based upon pressures on reimbursement rates experienced from certain payers and competitive pressures experienced in certain markets, and; (iii) revisions made to the number and timing of planned de novo facilities. Provision for Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rates The effective tax rates, as calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by income before income taxes, were as follows for each of the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 (dollar amounts in thousands): The provision for income taxes increased $2 million and the effective tax rate decreased 0.5% during 2019, as compared 2018, due primarily to: (i) an increase resulting from the provision for income taxes recorded on the $32 million increase in pre-tax income, as discussed above in Results of Operations ; (ii) a decrease of $11 million resulting from our adoption of ASU 2016-09 which decreased our provision for income taxes by approximately $12 million during 2019, as compared to a decrease of approximately $1 million during 2018; (iii) a $4 million decrease resulting from a favorable adjustment recorded during 2019 related to a change in state tax law, partially offset by; (iv) a $6 million increase recorded during 2019 resulting from the above-mentioned net estimated federal and state income taxes due on the portion of the DOJ Reserve that is estimated to be non-deductible for income tax purposes. The decrease in the effective tax rate during 2018, as compared to 2017, was due primarily to the following: 74 Effects of Inflation and Seasonality Seasonality —Our acute care services business is typically seasonal, with higher patient volumes and net patient service revenue in the first and fourth quarters of the year. This seasonality occurs because, generally, more people become ill during the winter months, which results in significant increases in the number of patients treated in our hospitals during those months. Inflation —Inflation has not had a material impact on our results of operations over the last three years. However, since the healthcare industry is very labor intensive and salaries and benefits are subject to inflationary pressures, as are supply and other costs, we cannot predict the impact that future economic conditions may have on our ability to contain future expense increases. Our ability to pass on increased costs associated with providing healthcare to Medicare and Medicaid patients is limited due to various federal, state and local laws which have been enacted that, in certain cases, limit our ability to increase prices. We believe, however, that through adherence to cost containment policies, labor management and reasonable price increases, the effects of inflation on future operating margins should be manageable. Liquidity Year ended December 31, 2019 as compared to December 31, 2018: Net cash provided by operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.438 billion during 2019 as compared to $1.275 billion during 2018. The net increase of $164 million was primarily attributable to the following: Days sales outstanding (“DSO”): Our DSO are calculated by dividing our net revenue by the number of days in the year. The result is divided into the accounts receivable balance the end of the year. Our DSO were 50 days at December 31, 2019, 51 days at December 31, 2018 and 53 days at December 31, 2017. Our accounts receivable as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 include amounts due from Illinois of approximately $36 million and $32 million, respectively. Collection of the outstanding receivables continues to be delayed due to state budgetary and funding pressures. Approximately $18 million as of each of December 31, 2019 and 2018, of the receivables due from Illinois were outstanding in excess of 60 days, as of each respective date. Although the accounts receivable due from Illinois could remain outstanding for the foreseeable future, since we expect to eventually collect all amounts due to us, no related reserves have been established in our consolidated financial statements. However, we can provide no assurance that we will eventually collect all amounts due to us from Illinois. Failure to ultimately collect all outstanding amounts due to us from Illinois would have an adverse impact on our future consolidated results of operations and cash flows. Net cash used in investing activities Net cash used in investing activities was $688 million during 2019 and $747 million during 2018. 2019: The $688 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2019 consisted of: 75 2018: The $747 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2018 consisted of: Net cash used in financing activities Net cash used in financing activities was $845 million during 2019 and $492 million during 2018. 2019: The $845 million of net cash used in financing activities during 2019 consisted of the following: 2018: The $492 million of net cash used in financing activities during 2018 consisted of the following: 76 Year ended December 31, 2018 as compared to December 31, 2017: Net cash provided by operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.275 billion during 2018 as compared to $1.248 billion during 2017. The net increase of $27 million was primarily attributable to the following: Net cash used in investing activities Net cash used in investing activities was $747 million during 2018 and $685 million during 2017. The factors contributing to the $747 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2018 are detailed above. 2017: The $685 million of net cash used in investing activities during 2017 consisted of: Net cash used in financing activities Net cash used in financing activities was $492 million during 2018 and $519 million during 2017. The factors contributing to the $492 million of net cash used in financing activities during 2018 are detailed above. 2017: The $519 million of net cash used in financing activities during 2017 consisted of the following: 77 2020 Expected Capital Expenditures: During 2020, we expect to spend approximately $775 million to $825 million on capital expenditures which includes expenditures for capital equipment, renovations and new projects at existing hospitals. Approximately $250 million of our 2020 expected capital expenditures relates to completion of projects that are in progress as of December 31, 2019. We believe that our capital expenditure program is adequate to expand, improve and equip our existing hospitals. We expect to finance all capital expenditures and acquisitions with internally generated funds and/or additional funds, as discussed below. Capital Resources Credit Facilities and Outstanding Debt Securities On October 23, 2018, we entered into a Sixth Amendment (the “Sixth Amendment”) to our credit agreement dated as of November 15, 2010, as amended on March 15, 2011, September 21, 2012, May 16, 2013, August 7, 2014 and June 7, 2016, among UHS, as borrower, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, as lenders, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other agents party thereto (the “Senior Credit Agreement”). The Sixth Amendment became effective on October 23, 2018. The Sixth Amendment amended the Senior Credit Agreement to, among other things: (i) increase the aggregate amount of the revolving credit facility to $1 billion (increase of $200 million over the $800 million previous commitment); (ii) increase the aggregate amount of the tranche A term loan commitments to $2 billion (increase of approximately $290 million over the $1.71 billion of outstanding borrowings prior to the amendment), and; (iii) extended the maturity date of the revolving credit and tranche A term loan facilities to October 23, 2023 from August 7, 2019. On October 31, 2018, we added a seven-year tranche B term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $500 million pursuant to the Senior Credit Agreement. The tranche B term loan matures on October 31, 2025. We used the proceeds to repay borrowings under the revolving credit facility, the Securitization (as defined below), to redeem our $300 million, 3.75% Senior Notes that were scheduled to mature in 2019 and for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2019, we had no borrowings outstanding pursuant to our $1 billion revolving credit facility and we had $967 million of available borrowing capacity net of $2 million of outstanding letters of credit and $31 million of outstanding borrowings pursuant to a short-term credit facility. Pursuant to the terms of the Sixth Amendment, the tranche A term loan, which had $1.950 billion of borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2019, provides for eight installment payments of $12.5 million per quarter which commenced in March of 2019 and are scheduled to continue through December of 2020. Thereafter, payments of $25 million per quarter are scheduled, commencing in March of 2021 until maturity in October of 2023, when all outstanding amounts will be due. The tranche B term loan, which had $495 million of borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2019, provides for installment payments of $1.25 million per quarter, which commenced on March 31, 2019 and are scheduled to continue until maturity in October of 2025, when all outstanding amounts will be due. Borrowings under the Senior Credit Agreement bear interest at our election at either (1) the ABR rate which is defined as the rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the lender’s prime rate, (b) the weighted average of the federal funds rate, plus 0.5% and (c) one month LIBOR rate plus 1%, in each case, plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 0.375% to 0.625% for revolving credit and term loan A borrowings and 0.75% for tranche B borrowings, or (2) the one, two, three or six month LIBOR rate (at our election), plus an applicable margin based upon our consolidated leverage ratio at the end of each quarter ranging from 1.375% to 1.625% for revolving credit and term loan A borrowings and 1.75% for the tranche B term loan. As of December 31, 2019, the applicable margins were 0.375% for ABR-based loans and 1.375% for LIBOR-based loans under the revolving credit and term loan A facilities. The revolving credit facility includes a $125 million sub-limit for letters of credit. The Senior Credit Agreement is secured by certain assets of the Company and our material subsidiaries (which generally 78 excludes asset classes such as substantially all of the patient-related accounts receivable of our acute care hospitals, and certain real estate assets and assets held in joint-ventures with third parties) and is guaranteed by our material subsidiaries. The Senior Credit Agreement includes a material adverse change clause that must be represented at each draw. The Senior Credit Agreement contains covenants that include a limitation on sales of assets, mergers, change of ownership, liens and indebtedness, transactions with affiliates, dividends and stock repurchases; and requires compliance with financial covenants including maximum leverage. We are in compliance with all required covenants as of December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. In late April, 2018, we entered into the sixth amendment to our accounts receivable securitization program (“Securitization”) dated as of October 27, 2010 with a group of conduit lenders, liquidity banks, and PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, which provides for borrowings outstanding from time to time by certain of our subsidiaries in exchange for undivided security interests in their respective accounts receivable. The sixth amendment, among other things, extended the term of the Securitization program through April 26, 2021 and increased the borrowing capacity to $450 million (from $440 million previously). Although the program fee and certain other fees were adjusted in connection with the sixth amendment, substantially all other provisions of the Securitization program remained unchanged. Pursuant to the terms of our Securitization program, substantially all of the patient-related accounts receivable of our acute care hospitals (“Receivables”) serve as collateral for the outstanding borrowings. We have accounted for this Securitization as borrowings. We maintain effective control over the Receivables since, pursuant to the terms of the Securitization, the Receivables are sold from certain of our subsidiaries to special purpose entities that are wholly-owned by us. The Receivables, however, are owned by the special purpose entities, can be used only to satisfy the debts of the wholly-owned special purpose entities, and thus are not available to us except through our ownership interest in the special purpose entities. The wholly-owned special purpose entities use the Receivables to collateralize the loans obtained from the group of third-party conduit lenders and liquidity banks. The group of third-party conduit lenders and liquidity banks do not have recourse to us beyond the assets of the wholly-owned special purpose entities that securitize the loans. At December 31, 2019, we had $400 million of outstanding borrowings pursuant to the terms of the Securitization and $50 million of available borrowing capacity. As of December 31, 2019, we had combined aggregate principal of $1.1 billion from the following senior secured notes: Interest on the 2022 Notes is payable on February 1 and August 1 of each year until the maturity date of August 1, 2022. Interest on the 2026 Notes is payable on June 1 and December 1 until the maturity date of June 1, 2026. The 2022 Notes and 2026 Notes were offered only to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A and to non-U.S. persons outside the United States in reliance on Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). The 2022 Notes and 2026 Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. On November 26, 2018 we redeemed the $300 million aggregate principal, 3.75% Senior Notes due in 2019. The 2019 Notes were redeemed for an aggregate price equal to 100.485% of the principal amount, resulting in a premium paid of approximately $1 million, plus accrued interest to the redemption date. At each of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the carrying value and fair value of our debt were each approximately $4.0 billion. The fair value of our debt was computed based upon quotes received from financial institutions. We consider these to be “level 2” in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in the authoritative guidance for disclosures in connection with debt instruments. Our total debt as a percentage of total capitalization was approximately 42% at December 31, 2019 and 43% at December 31, 2018. During 2015, we entered into nine forward starting interest rate swaps whereby we paid a fixed rate on a total notional amount of $1.0 billion and received one-month LIBOR. The average fixed rate payable on these swaps, all of which matured on April 15, 2019, was 1.31 %. Although we can provide no assurance that we will ultimately do so, we are currently monitoring the interest rate environment and evaluating the terms of potential replacement interest rate swaps that we may enter into for a large portion, or potentially all, of the $1 billion total notional amount that expired on April 15, 2019. 79 We expect to finance all capital expenditures and acquisitions, pay dividends and potentially repurchase shares of our common stock utilizing internally generated and additional funds. Additional funds may be obtained through: (i) borrowings under our existing revolving credit facility or through refinancing the existing Senior Credit Agreement; (ii) the issuance of other long-term debt, and/or; (iii) the issuance of equity. We believe that our operating cash flows, cash and cash equivalents, as well as access to the capital markets, provide us with sufficient capital resources to fund our operating, investing and financing requirements for the next twelve months, including the refinancing of our above-mentioned Senior Credit Agreement that is scheduled to mature in October, 2023. However, in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. Our inability to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2019 we were party to certain off balance sheet arrangements consisting of standby letters of credit and surety bonds which totaled $112 million consisting of: (i) $108 million related to our self-insurance programs, and; (ii) $4 million of other debt and public utility guarantees. Obligations under operating leases for real property, real property master leases and equipment amount to $418 million as of December 31, 2019. The real property master leases are leases for buildings on or near hospital property for which we guarantee a certain level of rental income. We sublease space in these buildings and any amounts received from these subleases are offset against the expense. In addition, we lease three hospital facilities from Universal Health Realty Trust (the “Trust”) with two hospital terms expiring in 2021 and the third in 2026. These leases contain up to two 5-year renewal options. We also lease two free-standing emergency departments and space in certain medical office buildings which are owned by the Trust. In addition, we lease the real property of certain other facilities from non-related parties as indicated in