.” This item contains important cautionary statements and a discussion of the known factors that we consider could materially affect the accuracy of our forward-looking statements and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. There may be additional risks that we consider immaterial or which are not known. Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Subject to any continuing obligations under applicable law or any relevant stock exchange rules, we expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the date of this Form 10-K, any updates or revisions to any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based. 38 Table of Contents None. As of January 22, 2013, the Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc headquarters and our larger shoreside locations are as follows: In addition, we own, lease or have controlling interests in port facilities in Barcelona, Spain; Cozumel, Mexico; Grand Turk, Turks & Caicos Islands; Juneau, Alaska; Long Beach, California and Roatán, Honduras. Holland America Line’s and Princess’ private islands, Half Moon Cay and Princess Cays ® , respectively, are briefly described in Part I, Item 1. Business. B. “Cruise Business.” The hotel properties owned and operated by Holland America Princess Alaska Tours and the two cruise ships that we own and charter-out under long-term bareboat charter agreements are also briefly described in Part I, Item 1. Business. B. “Cruise Business.” Information about our cruise ships, including the number each of our cruise brands operates, their passenger capacity and their primary regions or countries from which they source their guests, as well as information regarding our cruise ships under construction may be found under Part I, Business. B. “Cruise Business,” and Note 6, “Commitments” and Note 11, “Fair Value Measurements, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. Also, information about maritime regulations and issues that may affect our cruise ships can be found in Part I. Item 1. Business. B. “Cruise Business.” Our cruise ships in operation, headquarters, ports, private islands and other shoreside facilities and Holland America Princess Alaska Tours’ properties are all well maintained and in good condition. We evaluate our needs periodically and obtain additional facilities when deemed necessary. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs. On January 26, 2012, a purported class action was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois (Eastern Division) naming as defendants Costa Crociere S.p.A., Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc (Gary Lobaton v. Carnival Corporation, Carnival plc and Costa Crociere S.p.A.). The defendants have been served with the action. The plaintiff purports to represent an alleged class of the passengers and crew of Costa Concordia who were on board the ship during the ship incident in January 2012. The complaint alleges the defendants violated the Athens Convention Relating to the Carriage of Passengers and their Luggage by Sea, breached contracts with employees and passengers and acted negligently. The plaintiff also alleges unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary and punitive damages, interests and costs, among other things. On May 3, 2012, an action was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida naming as defendants Carnival Corporation, Carnival plc, Costa Crociere S.p.A. and Costa Cruise Lines, Inc. (Giglio Sub v. Carnival Corporation). The defendants have been served with the action. The plaintiffs are a purported class of business owners and wage earners on Giglio Island in Italy who claim they have been injured as a result of the ship incident in January 2012. The plaintiffs allege negligence, gross negligence and nuisance against the defendants. The complaint seeks monetary damages in the amount of $75 million, punitive damages, interests, costs and an injunction that future travel near Giglio Island will be conducted at safe distances. On September 26, 2012, the court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the plaintiffs’ claims to Italy based on the forum non conveniens doctrine. The plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, which is pending. On June 25, 2012, an action was filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California naming as defendants Carnival Corporation, Costa Crociere S.p.A., Micky Arison, Howard Frank, Arnold Donald, Joseph Farcus, and Joseph Farcus, Architect, P.A. (Sandoval v. Carnival Corporation). The defendants have been served with the action, although the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed claims against Costa Crociere S.p.A. The action was filed by two plaintiffs in connection with the ship incident in January 2012. The case is scheduled for trial in June 2013. 39 Table of Contents On July 5, 2012, an action was filed in the Circuit Court serving Miami-Dade County, Florida naming as defendants Carnival Corporation, Carnival Corporation & plc, Costa Cruise Lines, Inc., Costa Crociere S.p.A. and Joseph Farcus P.A. (Scimone v. Carnival Corp.). The defendants have been served with the action. The plaintiffs filed the action in connection with the ship incident in January 2012. The action contains claims for negligence, product liability, professional negligence and intentional tort. The complaint seeks economic and compensatory damages, attorneys’ fees, costs and interest. The plaintiffs state they will amend their complaint to state a claim for punitive damages. The defendants removed the case to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida and moved to dismiss to Italy based on forum non conveniens and the forum selection clauses in certain of the plaintiffs’ Passage Ticket Contracts. The case is scheduled for trial in 2014. On July 5, 2012, an action was filed in the Circuit Court serving Miami-Dade County, Florida naming as defendants Carnival Corporation, Carnival Corporation & plc, Costa Cruise Lines, Inc., Costa Crociere S.p.A. and Joseph Farcus P.A. (Abeid-Saba v. Carnival Corp.). The defendants have been served with the action. The plaintiffs filed the action in connection with the ship incident in January 2012. The action contains claims for maritime negligence, gross negligence, negligence-product defect as to Carnival Corporation, professional negligence in ship design, intentional failure to warn, intentional failure to abandon ship, intentional failure to notify authorities, corporate policies and practice, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent retention, fraudulent misrepresentation and fraud in the inducement. The complaint seeks economic and compensatory damages, attorneys’ fees, costs and interest. The plaintiffs state they will amend their complaint to state a claim for punitive damages. The defendants removed the case to the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida and moved to dismiss to Italy based on forum non conveniens and the forum selection clauses in certain of the plaintiffs’ Passage Ticket Contracts. On July 13, 2012, an action was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida naming as defendants Carnival Corporation, Carnival Corporation & plc, Costa Cruise Lines, Inc., and Costa Crociere S.p.A (Warrick v. Carnival Corp.). The defendants have been served with the action. The plaintiffs, consisting of five U.S. citizens, filed the action in connection with the ship incident in January 2012. Three of the plaintiffs were passengers on the ship and they assert claims for fraudulent misrepresentation, maritime negligence, gross negligence, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent hiring, fraudulent inducement and deceptive trade practices arising out of the incident, as well as vicarious liability and actual and apparent agency. The remaining two plaintiffs did not sail because one did not have the required visa and the other opted to also stay behind. These two plaintiffs assert claims for breach of contract, fraudulent misrepresentation and unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks economic and compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys’ fees, costs and interest. The defendants have moved to dismiss the plaintiffs’ claims to Italy based on forum non conveniens and the forum selection clauses in the plaintiffs’ Passage Ticket Contracts. On September 4, 2012, an action was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida naming as defendants Carnival Corporation, Costa Cruise Lines Inc., and Costa Crociere S.p.A. (Perez v. Carnival Corp.). The defendants have been served with the action. The plaintiffs, consisting of 154 individuals, filed the action in connection with the ship incident in January 2012. The action seeks damages for negligence, negligent retention, and negligent training (against Carnival Corporation only). The defendants moved to dismiss to Italy based on the forum non conveniens doctrine and the forum selection clauses in certain of the plaintiffs’ Passage Ticket Contracts. On January 9, 2013, an action was filed in the Circuit Court serving Miami-Dade County naming as defendants Carnival Corporation, Carnival plc, Costa Crociere S.p.A. and Costa Cruise Lines, Inc. (Gual v. Carnival Corp.). The defendants have not yet been served with the action. The plaintiffs, consisting of ten Spanish citizens, filed the action in connection with the ship incident in January 2012. The plaintiffs’ claims are for maritime negligence, negligent hiring, supervision and retention, negligent training, gross negligence, intentional tortious conduct, intentional infliction of emotional distress, wrongful death under Florida law and breach of contract. On January 11, 2013, an action was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida naming as defendants Carnival Corporation, Carnival Corporation & plc, Costa Cruise Lines, Inc., and Costa Crociere S.p.A. (Ankhimova v. Carnival Corp.). The defendants have not yet been served with the action. The action was filed by two plaintiffs in connection with the ship incident in January 2012. The action seeks damages for negligence, negligent retention, negligent training, gross negligence, maritime negligence, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of emotional distress and loss of services. On January 11, 2013, an action was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of California naming as defendants Carnival Corporation, Carnival plc, Costa Crociere S.p.A. and Costa Cruise Lines, Inc. (Lynch v. Carnival Corp.). The defendants have not yet been served with the action. The action was filed by two plaintiffs in connection with the ship incident in January 2012. The action seeks damages for maritime tort, deceptive trade practice under California Civil Code, intentional tort, fraud in the inducement and punitive conduct, breach of contract, gross negligence and false advertising and deceptive trade practices under California’s Business and Professions Code. 40 Table of Contents On January 14, 2013, an action was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida naming as defendants Carnival Corporation, Carnival plc, Costa Crociere S.p.A. and John Does 1-10 (King v. Carnival Corp.). The defendants have not yet been served with the action. The action was filed by two plaintiffs in connection with the ship incident in January 2012. The action seeks damages for violation of the Athens Convention Relating to the Carriage of Passengers and their Luggage by Sea, breach of contract, negligence, unjust enrichment, punitive damages, negligent infliction of emotional distress, negligent supervision and gross negligence. On January 24, 2013, Costa was notified by the Chief Prosecutor of Grosseto, Italy of his intention to seek to charge Costa pursuant to Section 25 of Legislative Decree No. 231/2001 (“Law 231”) for acts committed by its employees in connection with the Costa Concordia incident. If the prosecutor proceeds, he will be required to present his evidence against Costa to a court in a preliminary hearing to be held in the spring of 2013. If the court finds sufficient evidence to support a claim against Costa, the court will order a formal trial that would be expected to commence in the fall of 2013. We believe Costa has meritorious defenses to the claims under Law 231 and that any liability that may arise as a result of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our financial results. None. Executive Officers of the Registrants Pursuant to General Instruction G(3), the information regarding our executive officers called for by Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K is hereby included in Part I of this Form 10-K. The table below sets forth the name, age, years of service and title of each of our executive officers. Titles listed relate to positions within Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc unless otherwise noted. Business Experience of Executive Officers Micky Arison has been Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1990 and a director since 1987. He has been Chief Executive Officer since 1979. David Bernstein has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2007. From 2003 to 2007, he was Vice President and Treasurer. From 1998 to 2003, he was Chief Financial Officer of Cunard and Seabourn. Alan B. Buckelew has been Chief Executive Officer of Princess since 2007. He has been President of Princess from 2004. From 2004 to 2007, he was also Chief Operating Officer of Cunard. From 2000 to 2004, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Princess. 41 Table of Contents Gerald R. Cahill has been President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Cruise Lines since 2007. From 2003 to 2007, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Accounting Officer. From 1998 to 2003, he was Senior Vice President Finance, Chief Financial and Accounting Officer. David Dingle has been Chief Executive Officer of Carnival UK since June 2007. In this capacity, he has full operating responsibility for the UK brands, P&O Cruises (UK) and Cunard. From 2003 to 2007, he was Managing Director of Carnival UK and P&O Cruises (UK). From 2000 to 2003, he was Managing Director of P&O Cruises (UK). Pier Luigi Foschi has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Asia since September 2012. He has been a director since 2003. He has been Chairman of the Board of Costa Crociere S.p.A since 2000. He was Chief Executive Officer of Costa Crociere, S.p.A from 1997 to July 2012. In that capacity, Mr. Foschi also had responsibility for AIDA from 2003 to July 2012 and Ibero from 2007 to July 2012. Howard S. Frank has been Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1993, Chief Operating Officer since 1998 and a director since 1992. Larry Freedman has been Chief Accounting Officer since 2007 and Vice President-Controller since 1998. From 1998 to 2007, Mr. Freedman was also Vice President-Finance. Stein Kruse has been the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Holland America Line since 2004. Mr. Kruse also serves as Chairman of the Board of Seabourn, a role he has held since 2011. From 2003 to 2004, he was the President and Chief Operating Officer of Holland America Line. From 1999 to 2003, he was Senior Vice President, Fleet Operations for Holland America Line. Arnaldo Perez has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since 2002. From 1995 to 2002, he was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Michael Thamm has been Chief Executive Officer of Costa Crociere S.p.A. since July 2012. In this capacity, Mr. Thamm also has responsibility for AIDA and Ibero. He was president of AIDA from 2004 to July 2012 and Senior Vice President Operations of AIDA from 1993 to 2004. PART II The information required by