” and Item 7 - “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” AUTOMATION SOLUTIONS The Automation Solutions segment offers a broad array of products, integrated solutions, software and services which enable process, hybrid and discrete manufacturers to maximize production, protect personnel and the environment, reduce project costs, and optimize their energy efficiency and operating costs. Markets served include 1 oil and gas, refining, chemicals, power generation, life sciences, food and beverage, automotive, pulp and paper, metals and mining, and municipal water supplies. The segment’s major product offerings are Measurement & Analytical Instrumentation, Valves, Actuators & Regulators, Industrial Solutions and Process Control Systems & Solutions, which are further described below. Across these product offerings, Automation Solutions offers the Plantweb TM Digital Ecosystem, a comprehensive Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) architecture that provides remote monitoring by combining intelligent field sensors, communication gateways and controllers, software, and complementary partner technologies. This IIoT architecture delivers measurable business performance improvements to customers by providing insights into production performance, energy consumption, reliability of specific equipment or process units, and safety. Together with the broad offering of products and integrated solutions, Automation Solutions also provides a portfolio of services and lifecycle service centers which offer consulting, engineering, systems development, project management, training, maintenance, and troubleshooting expertise to aid in process optimization. Sales by geographic destination in 2020 for Automation Solutions were: the Americas, 45 percent; Europe, 21 percent; and Asia, Middle East & Africa, 34 percent (China, 12 percent). Measurement & Analytical Instrumentation Measurement instrumentation measures the physical properties of liquids or gases in a process stream, such as pressure, temperature, level, rate and amount of flow, and communicates this information to a process control system or other software applications. Measurement technologies provided by the Company include Coriolis direct mass flow, magnetic flow, vortex flow, ultrasonic flow, differential pressure, ultra-low flow fluid measurement, corrosion measurement, acoustic measurement, temperature sensors, radar-based tank gauging and magnetic level gauging. The Company’s measurement products are often used in custody transfer applications, such as the transfer of gasoline from a storage tank to a tanker truck, where precise metering of the amount of fluid transferred helps ensure accurate asset management. Complementary products include onshore and subsea multi-phase meters, wet gas meters, downhole gauges and corrosion/erosion measuring instruments. Analytical instrumentation analyzes the chemical composition of process fluids and emissions to enhance quality and efficiency, as well as environmental compliance. The Company’s analytical technologies include process gas chromatographs, in-situ oxygen analyzers, infrared gas and process fluid analyzers, combustion analyzers and systems, and analyzers that measure pH, conductivity and water quality. The Company provides sensors to detect combustible and toxic gases, and flames. These devices support the safety of both people and process plant assets. Measurement and analytical instrumentation technologies are also available with highly secure and reliable wireless communication capability, allowing customers to monitor processes or equipment that were previously not measurable (remote, moving/rotating) or not economical to measure due to the high cost and difficulty of running wires in industrial process plants. On December 1, 2017, the Company acquired Paradigm, enhancing its software solutions offerings in the oil and gas industry. This technology helped create a more comprehensive digital portfolio from exploration to production, enabling Emerson to help oil and gas operators increase efficiency and reduce costs. See Note 4. Valves, Actuators & Regulators The primary role of an industrial valve is to control, isolate, or regulate the flow of liquids or gases to achieve safe operation along with reliability and optimized performance. Control, isolation and pressure relief valves respond to commands from a control system to continuously and precisely modulate the flow of process fluids. Engineered on/off valves are typically used to achieve tight shutoff, even in high-pressure and high-temperature processes. The Company designs, engineers and manufactures ball, gate, globe, check, sliding stem, rotary, high performance butterfly, triple offset, and severe services valves for critical applications. The Company also designs and manufactures sophisticated smart actuation and control technologies that continuously monitor valve health and remotely control valve positions to foster proactive and predictive maintenance as well as decrease the risk of unplanned shutdowns. The Company provides pressure management products, including pressure relief, vacuum relief, and gauge valves designed to control fugitive emissions. The Company also supplies a line of industrial and residential regulators, 2 whose function is to reduce the pressure of fluids moving from high-pressure supply lines into lower pressure systems, and also manufactures tank and terminal safety equipment, including hatches, vent pressure and vacuum relief valves, and flame arrestors for storage tanks in the oil and gas, petrochemical, refining and other process industries. Industrial Solutions Industrial Solutions include fluid control and pneumatic mechanisms, electrical distribution equipment, materials joining solutions and precision cleaning products which are used in a variety of manufacturing operations to provide integrated solutions to customers. Pneumatic products transform air or gas into energy and power for use in manufacturing operations such as food processing and packaging, life sciences and petrochemical processing. Products include solenoid and pneumatic valves, valve position indicators, pneumatic cylinders and actuators, air preparation equipment, and pressure, vacuum, temperature switches and automobile assembly. Electrical distribution consists of a broad line of components for current- and noncurrent-carrying electrical distribution devices, including conduit and cable fittings, plugs and other receptacles, industrial lighting, enclosures and controls. Electrical distribution products are used in hazardous, industrial and commercial environments, such as oil and gas drilling and production sites, petrochemical plants and commercial buildings. Plastic and metal joining technologies and equipment are supplied to a diversified manufacturing customer base, including automotive, medical devices, business and consumer electronics, and textile manufacturing. The Company also provides precision cleaning and liquid processing solutions to industrial and commercial manufacturers. Products include ultrasonic joining and cleaning equipment; linear and orbital vibration welding equipment; systems for hot plate, spin and laser welding; and aqueous, semi-aqueous and vapor cleaning systems. On July 17, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Aventics, a global provider of smart pneumatics technologies that power machine and factory automation applications. This acquisition significantly expanded Emerson’s fluid automation technologies for process and industrial applications. See Note 4. Process Control Systems & Solutions The Company provides process control systems and software that control plant processes by collecting and analyzing information from measurement devices in the plant, and then use that information to adjust valves, pumps, motors, drives and other control hardware for maximum product quality and process efficiency and safety. Software capabilities also include life sciences operations management, upstream oil and gas reservoir simulation and production optimization modeling, pipeline and terminal management, operations management simulation, and training systems. The Company’s process control systems can be extended wirelessly to support a mobile workforce with handheld tools/communicators, provide site-wide location tracking of people and assets, and enable video monitoring and communication with wireless field devices, thereby increasing the information available to operators. On January 31, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Machine Automation Solutions (General Electric's former Intelligent Platforms business). This business offers programmable logic controller technologies that expand the Company's capabilities in machine control and discrete applications, as well as for process and hybrid markets. The Company also completed several acquisitions of software providers, including Zedi, which offers a cloud-based supervisory control and data acquisition platform that helps oil and gas producers optimize and manage their operations. See Note 4. Distribution The principal worldwide distribution channel for Automation Solutions is a direct sales force, while a network of independent sales representatives, and to a lesser extent independent distributors purchasing products for resale, are also utilized. Approximately half of the sales in the United States are made through a direct sales force with the remainder primarily through independent sales representatives and distributors. In Europe and Asia, sales are primarily made through a direct sales force with the remainder split evenly between independent sales representatives and distributors. Brands Service/trademarks and trade names within (but not exclusive to) Automation Solutions include Emerson Automation Solutions, Appleton, ASCO, Aventics, Bettis, Branson, DeltaV, Fisher, Keystone, KTM, Micro Motion, Ovation, Plantweb, Rosemount and Vanessa. 3 COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL SOLUTIONS The Commercial & Residential Solutions business consists of the Climate Technologies and Tools & Home Products segments. The Climate Technologies segment provides products and solutions that promote energy efficiency, enhance household and commercial comfort, and protect food quality and sus tainability through heating, air conditioning and refrigeration technology. The Tools & Home Products segment offers a broad range of mechanical, electrical, utility and do-it-yourself tools for professionals and consumers, and appliance solutions. Sales by geographic destination in 2020 for Commercial & Residential Solutions were: the Americas , 69 percent; Europe, 12 percent; and Asia, Middle East & Africa, 19 percent (China, 9 percent). CLIMATE TECHNOLOGIES The Climate Technologies segment provides products and services for many areas of the climate control industry, including residential heating and cooling, commercial air conditioning, commercial and industrial refrigeration, and cold chain management. The Company's technologies enable homeowners and businesses to better manage their heating, air conditioning and refrigeration systems for improved control and comfort, and lower energy costs. Climate Technologies also provides services that digitally control and remotely monitor refrigeration units in grocery stores and other food distribution outlets to enhance food freshness and safety, as well as cargo and transportation monitoring solutions. Sales by geographic destination in 2020 for Climate Technologies were: the Americas, 65 percent; Europe, 11 percent; and Asia, Middle East & Africa, 24 percent (China, 11 percent). Residential and Commercial Heating and Air Conditioning The Company provides a full range of heating and air conditioning products that help reduce operational and energy costs and create comfortable environments in all types of buildings. These products include reciprocating and scroll compressors, including ultra-efficient residential scroll compressors with two stages of cooling capacity, as well as variable speed scroll compressors; system protector and flow control devices; standard, programmable and Wi-Fi thermostats; monitoring equipment and electronic controls for gas and electric heating systems; gas valves for furnaces and water heaters; ignition systems for furnaces; sensors and thermistors for home appliances; and temperature sensors and controls. Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration Commercial and industrial refrigeration technologies are incorporated into equipment to refrigerate food and beverages in supermarkets, convenience stores, food service operations, refrigerated trucks and refrigerated marine transport containers. Climate Technologies refrigeration products are also used in a wide variety of industrial applications, including medical applications, food processing and cold storage. Products include reciprocating, scroll and screw compressors; precision flow controls; system diagnostics and controls that provide precise temperature management; and environmental control systems. Transport and cargo monitoring solutions are also offered, which extend throughout the cold chain to ensure quality and safety as food travels from growers to processing and distribution facilities, and finally to retail points of sale. Services and Solutions Services and solutions provides air conditioning, refrigeration and lighting control technologies that enable global customers to optimize the performance of facilities, including large-scale retailers, supermarkets, convenience stores and food service operations. The Company’s expertise allows customers to reduce energy and maintenance costs, thereby improving overall facility efficiency and uptime. In addition to industry-leading controls, services include facility design and product management, site commissioning, facility monitoring and energy modeling. In 2018, the Company completed an acquisition to expand its cold chain portfolio of products and services to include temperature management and monitoring products for foodservice markets. Distribution Climate Technologies' sales, primarily to original equipment manufacturers and end users, are made predominantly through worldwide direct sales forces. Remaining sales are primarily through independent distributor networks throughout the world. Approximately one-third of this segment’s sales are made to a small number of original equipment manufacturers. 4 Brands Service/trademarks and trade names within (but not exclusive to) the Climate Technologies segment include Emerson Commercial & Residential Solutions, Emerson Climate Technologies, Copeland, CoreSense, Dixell, Fusite, ProAct, Sensi, Therm-O-Disc, Vilter and White-Rodgers. TOOLS & HOME PRODUCTS The Company’s Tools & Home Products segment offers tools for professionals and homeowners and appliance solutions. Sales by geographic destination in 2020 for this segment were: the Americas, 79 percent; Europe, 15 percent; and Asia, Middle East & Africa, 6 percent. Professional Tools Pipe-working tools are used by plumbing and mechanical professionals to install and repair piping systems. Products include pipe wrenches, pipe cutters, pipe threading and roll grooving equipment, mechanical crimping tube joining systems, drain cleaners, tubing tools, and diagnostic systems, including closed-circuit television pipe inspection and locating equipment. Electrical tools are used by industry professionals for numerous tasks related to the installation of wire and cable, including bending, termination and hole-making. Other professional tools include water jetters, wet-dry vacuums, commercial vacuums and bolt cutters. The Company also offers do-it-yourself tools, available at retail home improvement outlets, which include drain cleaning equipment, pipe and tube working tools, and wet-dry vacuums. On July 2, 2018, the Company completed the acquisition of Textron’s tools and test equipment business, which manufactures electrical and utility tools, diagnostics, and test and measurement instruments. These products expand Emerson’s professional tools business, creating a broad offering for mechanical, electrical and plumbing contractors. See Note 4. Appliance Solutions The Company provides a number of appliance solutions, including residential and commercial food waste disposers, instant hot water dispensers and compact electric water heaters. Distribution The principal worldwide distribution channels for Tools & Home Products are distributors and direct sales forces. Professional tools are sold worldwide almost exclusively through distributors. Appliance solutions are sold through direct sales force networks, distributors and online retailers. Approximately one-fourth of this segment's sales are made to a small number of big-box retail outlets. Brands Service/trademarks and trade names within (but not exclusive to) the Tools & Home Products segment include Emerson, Emerson Professional Tools, Badger, Greenlee, Grind2Energy, InSinkErator, Klauke, ProTeam and RIDGID. On October 2, 2017, the Company sold its residential storage business. See Note 4. RAW MATERIALS The Company's major requirements for basic raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron, electronics, rare earth metals, aluminum and brass; and to a lesser extent, plastics and petroleum-based chemicals. The Company seeks to have many sources of supply for each of its major requirements in order to avoid significant dependence on any one or a few suppliers. However, the supply of materials or other items could be disrupted by natural disasters or other events. Despite market price volatility for certain materials and pricing pressures at some of our businesses, the raw materials and various purchased components needed for the Company’s products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. 5 PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES The Company maintains an intellectual property portfolio it has developed or acquired over a number of years, including patents, trademarks and licenses. The Company also continues to develop or acquire new intellectual property. New patent applications are continuously filed to protect the Company’s ongoing research and development activities. The Company’s trademark registrations may be renewed and their duration is dependent upon national laws and trademark use. While this proprietary intellectual property portfolio is important to the Company in the aggregate, management does not regard any of its segments as being dependent on any single patent, trademark registration or license. BACKLOG The Company’s estimated consolidated order backlog was $5.3 billion and $5.1 billion at September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Approximately 85 percent of the Company’s consolidated backlog is expected to be recognized as revenue over the next 12 months, with the remainder substantially over the subsequent two years thereafter. Backlog by business at September 30, 2020 and 2019 follows (dollars in millions): COMPETITION The Company's businesses operate in highly competitive markets. The Company competes based on product performance, quality, branding, service and/or price across the industries and markets served. A significant element of the Company's competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high-quality products at the best relevant global cost. Although no single company competes directly with Emerson in all of the Company's product lines, various companies compete in one or more product lines with the number of competitors varying by product line. Some competitors have substantially greater sales, assets and financial resources than Emerson and the Company also competes with many smaller companies. Management believes Emerson has a market leadership position in many of its product lines. REGULATIONS The Company's operations, products and services are subject to various government regulations, including environmental regulations. Our manufacturing locations generate waste, of which treatment, storage, transportation and disposal are subject to U.S. federal, state, foreign and/or local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. The Company continually works to minimize the environmental impact of its operations through safe technologies, facility design and operating procedures. Compliance with government regulations, including environmental regulations, has not had, and based on current information and the applicable laws and regulations currently in effect, is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's capital expenditures (including expenditures for environmental control facilities), earnings or competitive position. However, laws and regulations may be changed, accelerated or adopted that impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the Company and which could negatively impact our operating results. See Item 1A - "Risk Factors." HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES Supporting our people is a foundational value for Emerson. We believe the Company’s success depends on its ability to attract, develop and retain key personnel. The skills, experience and industry knowledge of key employees significantly benefit our operations and performance. The Company's Board of Directors and management oversee various employee initiatives. The Company supports and develops its employees through global training and development programs that build and strengthen employees’ leadership and professional skills. Leadership development programs include intensive learning programs for new leaders as well as more established leaders. The Company also partners with educational institutions and nonprofit organizations to help prepare current and future workers with the knowledge 6 and skills they need to succeed. To assess and improve employee retention and engagement, the Company surveys employees with the assistance of third-party consultants, and takes actions to address areas of employee concern. Approximately 60,000 employees were surveyed during the three years ended September 30, 2020. Employee health and safety in the workplace is one of the Company’s core values. Safety efforts are led by the Corporate Safety Council and supported by health and safety committees that operate at the local site level. Hazards in the workplace are actively identified and management tracks incidents so remedial actions can be taken to improve workplace safety. The COVID-19 pandemic has underscored for us the importance of keeping our employees safe and healthy. In response to the pandemic, the Company has taken actions aligned with the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to protect its workforce so they can more safely and effectively perform their work. We have identified other human capital priorities, including, among other things, providing competitive wages and benefits and promoting an inclusive work environment. The Company is committed to efforts to increase diversity and foster an inclusive work environment that supports our large global workforce and helps us innovate for our customers. We also have taken actions to enhance diversity, including recruiting at venues representing women, minorities and U.S. military veterans. Our efforts are guided by our Chief Executive Officer and Diversity Council, which is comprised of 14 senior-level executives. Employee levels are managed to align with the pace of business and management believes it has sufficient human capital to operate its business successfully. The Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 83,500 employees at September 30, 2020. Management believes that the Company's employee relations are favorable. A small portion of the Company’s U.S. employees are unionized, while outside the U.S., we have employees in certain countries, particularly in Europe, that are represented by an employee representative organization, such as a union, works council or employee association. INTERNET ACCESS Emerson's reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and all amendments to those reports, as well as proxy statements, are available without charge through the Company’s website on the internet as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They may be accessed as follows: www.Emerson.com, Investors, SEC Filings. Information on the Company’s website does not constitute part of this Form 10-K. The information set forth under Item 1A - “Risk Factors” is hereby incorporated by reference. ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves risks. You should carefully consider, among other matters, the factors set forth below and the other information in this report. The Company’s risk factors set forth below are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to management or that management currently deems immaterial also may materially, adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. We may amend or supplement the risk factors set forth below from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC. Business and Operational Risks We Operate in Businesses That Are Subject to Competitive Pressures That Could Affect Prices or Demand for Our Products Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive and potentially volatile, and we compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price across the industries and markets served. Our businesses are largely dependent on the current and future business environment, including capital and consumer spending. A significant element of our competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high-quality products at the best relevant global cost. Various companies compete with us in one or more product lines and the number of competitors varies by product line. Some of our competitors have substantially greater sales, assets and financial resources than our Company and we also compete with many smaller companies. Competitive pressures 7 could adversely affect prices or customer demand for our products, impacting our sales or profit margins, and/or resulting in a loss of market share. Our Operating Results Depend in Part on Continued Successful Research, Development and Marketing of New and/or Improved Products and Services, and There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Continue to Successfully Introduce New Products and Services The success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. Our businesses are affected by varying degrees of technological change and corresponding shifts in customer demand, which result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened life cycles and increased importance of being first to market with new products and services. We may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to continue to bring new products and services to market. If We Are Unable to Defend or Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights, the Company's Competitive Position Could Be Adversely Affected The Company's intellectual property rights are important to its business and include numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other confidential information. This intellectual property may be subject to challenge, infringement, invalidation or circumvention by third parties. Despite extensive security measures, our intellectual property may be subject to misappropriation through unauthorized access of our information technology systems, employee theft, or other acts of industrial espionage. Should the Company be unable to adequately defend or protect its intellectual property, it may suffer competitive harm. We Engage in Acquisitions and Divestitures, Which Are Subject to Domestic and Foreign Regulatory Requirements, and May Encounter Difficulties in Integrating and Separating These Businesses and Therefore We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits We regularly seek growth through strategic acquisitions as well as evaluate our portfolio for potential divestitures. These activities require favorable environments to execute these transactions, and we may encounter difficulties in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions. In 2020 and in past years, we have made various acquisitions and entered into joint venture arrangements intended to complement or expand our business, and may continue to do so in the future. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions and to cooperate with our strategic partners. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations as well as separating divested businesses, and in managing strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We Use a Variety of Raw Materials and Components in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact the Competitive Positions of Our Products Our major requirements for raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron, electronics, rare earth metals, aluminum, brass and, to a lesser extent, plastics and petroleum-based chemicals. The Company seeks multiple sources of supply for each of its major requirements in order to avoid significant dependence on any one or a few suppliers. However, the supply of materials or other items could be disrupted by natural disasters, a health epidemic or pandemic, or other events. Significant shortages or price increases could impact the prices our affected businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. While we monitor market prices of the commodities we require and attempt to mitigate price exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating results. Our Operations Depend on Production Facilities Throughout the World, a Majority of Which Are Located Outside the United States and Subject to Increased Risks of Disrupted Production, Causing Delays in Shipments and Loss of Customers and Revenue We manage businesses with manufacturing facilities worldwide, a majority of which are located outside the United States, and also source certain materials internationally. Emerging market sales represent over one-third of total sales and serving a global customer base requires that we place more materials sourcing and production in 8 emerging markets to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain our best-cost position. Our and our suppliers’ international production facilities and operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strife, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns such as an epidemic or pandemic, particularly in emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such occurrences. Our manufacturing facilities abroad are dependent on the stability of governments and business conditions and may be more susceptible to changes in laws, policies and regulations in host countries, as well as economic and political upheaval, than our domestic facilities. These facilities face increased risks of nationalization as well as operational disruptions which could cause delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers, and insurance proceeds may not adequately compensate us. Access to Funding Through the Capital Markets is Essential to the Execution of Our Business Plan, and if We Are Unable to Maintain Such Access We Could Experience a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business and Financial Results Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. Volatility in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing commercial paper or other debt instruments, or affect the Company’s ability to access those markets. If we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Additionally, if our customers, suppliers or financial institutions are unable to access the capital markets to meet their commitments to the Company, our business could be adversely impacted. Our Business Success Depends on the Ability to Attract, Develop and Retain Key Personnel Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management and key employees. Their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. The failure to attract, develop and retain highly qualified personnel could adversely affect our business and operating results. Security and/or Data Privacy Breaches, or Disruptions of Our Information Technology Systems Could Adversely Affect Our Business The Company relies on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. These technology networks and systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components; power outages; telecommunications or system failures; terrorist attacks; natural disasters; employee error or malfeasance; server or cloud provider breaches; and computer viruses or cyberattacks. Cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology networks and systems to more sophisticated and targeted measures, known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the Company, its products, its customers and/or its third-party service providers. Despite the implementation of cybersecurity measures (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring, and maintenance of backup and protective systems), the Company’s information technology systems may still be vulnerable to cybersecurity threats and other electronic security breaches. It is possible for such vulnerabilities to remain undetected for an extended period. In addition, it is possible a security breach could result in theft of trade secrets or other intellectual property or disclosure of confidential customer, supplier or employee information. Should the Company be unable to prevent security breaches or other damage to our information technology systems, disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations, as well as expose the Company to litigation, liability or penalties under privacy laws, increased cybersecurity protection costs, reputational damage and product failure. In addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data in the U.S. and elsewhere. Compliance with privacy and localization laws and regulations increases operational complexity. Failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to fines and penalties, as well as legal and reputational risks, including proceedings against the Company by governmental entities or others. Our Products and Services are Highly Sophisticated and Specialized, and a Major Product Failure or Similar Event Caused by Defects, Cybersecurity Incidents or Other Failures, Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Reputation, Financial Position and Results of Operations 9 We produce highly sophisticated products and provide specialized services that incorporate or use complex or leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Many of our products and services, including measurement and analytical instrumentation, industrial valves and equipment, and process control systems, are integrated and used in complex process, hybrid and discrete manufacturing environments. As a result, the impact of a catastrophic product failure or similar event could be significant. While we have built operational processes to ensure that our product design, manufacture, performance and servicing meet rigorous quality standards, there can be no assurance that we or our customers or other third parties will not experience operational process or product failures and other problems, including through manufacturing or design defects, process or other failures of contractors or third-party suppliers, cybersecurity incidents or other intentional acts, that could result in potential product, safety, regulatory or environmental risks. Cybersecurity incidents aimed at the software embedded in our products could lead to third-party claims resulting from damages caused by our product failures, and this risk is enhanced by the increasingly connected nature of our products. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include financial loss, reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs due to the increasing sophistication and proliferation of threats, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. Industry and General Economic Risks The Coronavirus (COVID-19) Outbreak Has Adversely Impacted our Business and Could in the Future Have a Material Adverse Impact on our Business, Results of Operation, Financial Condition and Liquidity, the Nature and Extent of Which is Highly Uncertain The global outbreak of the coronavirus (COVID-19) has significantly increased economic, demand and operational uncertainty. We have global operations, customers and suppliers, including in countries most impacted by COVID-19. Authorities around the world have taken a variety of measures to slow the spread of COVID-19, including travel bans or restrictions, increased border controls or closures, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders and business shutdowns and such authorities may impose additional restrictions. We have also taken actions to protect our employees and to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, including embracing guidelines set by the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on social distancing, good hygiene, restrictions on employee travel and in-person meetings, and changes to employee work arrangements including remote work arrangements where appropriate. The actions taken around the world to slow the spread of COVID-19 have also impacted our customers and suppliers, and future developments could cause further disruptions to Emerson due to the interconnected nature of our business relationships. The impact of COVID-19 on the global economy and our customers, as well as volatility in commodity markets (including oil prices), has negatively impacted demand for our products and could continue to do so in the future. Its effects could also result in further disruptions to our manufacturing operations, including higher rates of employee absenteeism, and supply chain, which could continue to negatively impact our ability to meet customer demand. Additionally, the potential deterioration and volatility of credit and financial markets could limit our ability to obtain external financing. The extent to which COVID-19 will impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity is highly uncertain and will depend on future developments, including the spread and duration of the virus, potential actions taken by governmental authorities, and how quickly economic conditions stabilize and recover. Our Substantial Sales Both in the U.S. and Abroad Subject Us to Economic Risk as Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Government Regulations and Policies and Currency Fluctuations We sell, manufacture, engineer and purchase products globally, with significant sales in both mature and emerging markets. We expect sales in non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. Our U.S. and international operations subject the Company to changes in government regulations and policies in a large number of jurisdictions around the world, including those related to trade, investments, taxation, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. Changes in laws or policies governing the terms of foreign trade, trade restrictions or barriers, tariffs or taxes, trade protection measures, and retaliatory countermeasures, including on imports from countries where we manufacture products, could adversely impact our business and financial results. In addition, changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and have affected our operating results and could do so in the future. While we monitor our exchange rate exposures and attempt to mitigate this exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating results. 10 Recessions, Adverse Market Conditions or Downturns in End Markets We Serve May Negatively Affect Our Operations In th e past, our operations have been exposed to significant volatility due to changes in general economic conditions or consumer preferences, recessions or adverse conditions in the end markets we serve. In the future, similar changes could adversely impact overall sales, operating results (including potential impairment charges for goodwill or other long-lived assets) and cash flows. Moreover, during economic downturns we may undertake more extensive restructuring actions, including workforce reductions, global facility consolidations, centralization of certain business support activities, and other cost reduction initiatives, and incur higher costs. As these plans and actions can be complex, the anticipated operational improvements, efficiencies and other benefits might be delayed or not realized. Legal and Regulatory Risks Changes in Tax Rates, Laws or Regulations and the Resolution of Tax Disputes Could Adversely Impact Our Financial Results As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine our consolidated income tax provision and related liabilities. The Company’s effective tax rate, cash flows and operating results could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, as well as by changes in the local tax laws and regulations, or the interpretations thereof. For example, on December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted tax reform, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), which made comprehensive changes to U.S. federal income tax laws by moving from a global to a modified territorial tax regime. The changes made by the Tax Act are broad and complex. In addition, the Company’s tax returns are subject to regular review and audit by U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities. While we believe our tax provisions are appropriate, the final outcome of tax audits or disputes could result in adjustments to the Company’s tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our Reputation, Ability To Do Business and Results of Operations Could Be Impaired By Improper Conduct By Any of Our Employees, Agents or Business Partners We are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced government corruption to some degree. We cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. Any such violation of law or improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to increased costs of compliance and could damage our reputation, our business and results of operations. We Are Subject to Litigation and Environmental Regulations That Could Adversely Impact Our Operating Results We are, and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving intellectual property, product liability (including asbestos) and environmental matters, several of which claim, or may in the future claim, si gnificant damages. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that existing litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse impact. We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. In addition, increased public awareness and concern regarding global climate change may result in more international, federal, and/or state or other stakeholder requirements or expectations that could result in more restrictive or expansive standards, such as stricter limits on greenhouse gas emissions or more prescriptive reporting of environmental, social, and governance metrics. There continues to be a lack of consistent climate change legislation and standards, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. While the Company has adopted certain voluntary targets, environmental laws, regulations or standards may be changed, accelerated or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the Company, its products or customers, which could negatively impact the Company’s business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. 11