The risks that Entergy faces are not limited to those
in this section. There may be additional risks and uncertainties
(either currently unknown or not currently believed to be material) that could
adversely affect Entergy's financial condition, results of operations and
liquidity. See "FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION."

Utility Regulatory
Risks

(Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas and System
Energy)

The
terms and conditions of service, including electric and gas rates, of the
Utility operating companies and System Energy are determined through regulatory
approval proceedings that are lengthy and subject to appeal that could result in
delays in effecting rate changes and uncertainty as to ultimate
results.

The rates
that the Utility operating companies and System Energy charge reflect their
capital expenditures, operations and maintenance charges, allowed rates of
return, financing costs, and related costs of service. These rates significantly
influence the financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity of
Entergy and each of the Utility operating companies and System
Energy. These rates are determined in regulatory proceedings and are
subject to periodic regulatory review and adjustment.

In
addition, regulators can initiate proceedings to investigate the prudence of
costs in the Utility operating companies' base rates and examine, among other
things, the prudence of the companies' operation and maintenance practices,
level of expenditures (including storm costs), allowed rates of
return and appropriate rate base, proposed resource acquisitions and
previously incurred capital expenditures. The regulators can disallow
costs found not to have been prudently incurred, creating some risk to the
ultimate recovery of those costs. Regulatory proceedings relating to
rates and other matters typically involve multiple parties seeking to limit or
reduce rates. The proceedings generally have long timelines, are
primarily based on historical costs, and may or may not be limited by statute,
which could cause the Utility operating companies and System Energy to
experience regulatory lag in recovering such costs through
rates. Decisions are typically subject to appeal, potentially leading
to additional uncertainty associated with rate case proceedings. The
Utility operating companies and System Energy, and the energy industry as a
whole, have experienced a period of rising costs and investments, which could
result in more frequent rate cases and requests for, and the continuation of,
cost recovery mechanisms. For information regarding rate case
proceedings and formula rate plans applicable to certain of the Utility
operating companies, see Note 2 to the financial statements.

The
Utility operating companies recover fuel and purchased power costs through rate
mechanisms that are subject to risks of delay or disallowance in regulatory
proceedings.

The
Utility operating companies recover their fuel and purchased power costs from
their customers through rate mechanisms subject to periodic regulatory review
and adjustment. Because regulatory review can result in the
disallowance of incurred costs found not to have been prudently incurred, there
exists some risk to the ultimate recovery of those costs. Regulators
can initiate proceedings to investigate the continued usage or the adequacy and
operation of the fuel and purchased power recovery clauses of the Utility
operating companies.

The
Utility operating companies' cash flows can be negatively affected by the time
delays between when gas, power or other commodities are purchased and the
ultimate recovery from customers in rates. On occasion, when the level
of incurred costs for fuel and purchased power rises very dramatically, some
of the Utility operating companies may agree to defer recovery of a
portion of that period's fuel and purchased power costs for recovery at a later
date, which could increase the near-term working capital and borrowing
requirements of those companies. For a description of fuel and
purchased power recovery mechanisms and information regarding the regulatory
proceedings for fuel and purchased power recovery, see Note 2 to the financial
statements.

 

 

240

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

As
a result of a challenge by the LPSC, the manner in which the Utility operating
companies have traditionally shared the costs associated with coordinated
planning, construction and operation of generating resources and bulk
transmission facilities has been changed by the FERC, which will require
adjustment of retail rates in the jurisdictions where the Utility operating
companies provide service and has introduced additional uncertainty in the
ratemaking process.

The
Utility operating companies historically have engaged in the coordinated
planning, construction, and operation of generating resources and bulk
transmission facilities under the terms of the System Agreement, which is a rate
schedule that has been approved by the FERC. In 2005, the FERC issued
a decision requiring changes to the cost allocation methodology used in that
rate schedule. In 2007 through 2009, payments were made by Entergy
Arkansas to certain of the Utility operating companies. 
 
Although actual
payments/receipts for 2010, based on calendar year 2009 production costs, will
not be calculated until the Utility operating companies have filed their FERC
Form 1s, preliminary estimates indicate that Entergy Arkansas will be required
to make payments of approximately $70 million in 2010. Entergy's
management believes that any changes in the allocation of production costs
resulting from the FERC's decision and related retail proceedings should result
in similar rate changes for retail customers. The timing of recovery
of these costs in rates, however, could be the subject of additional regulatory
and other proceedings.

In
December 2005, Entergy Arkansas provided notice of its intent to terminate its
participation in the System Agreement. In November 2007, Entergy
Mississippi provided its notice to terminate its participation in the System
Agreement. Each notice of termination is effective ninety-six (96)
months from the date of notice or such earlier date as authorized by the
FERC. The FERC accepted the notices in November 2009; the LPSC and
City Council have requested rehearing of that order. Entergy cannot
predict the timing or the form of any successor arrangement to the System
Agreement, to the extent one is implemented, or the effect such a successor
arrangement (or the absence thereof) will have on Entergy or the Utility
operating companies.

The LPSC,
APSC, MPSC and the AEEC have appealed the 2005 FERC decision to the Court of
Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Entergy and the City of New Orleans
intervened in the various appeals. The D.C. Circuit issued its
decision in April 2008. The D.C. Circuit affirmed the FERC's decision in most
respects, but remanded the case to the FERC for further proceedings and
reconsideration of its conclusion that it was prohibited from ordering refunds
and its determination to implement the bandwidth remedy commencing with calendar
year 2006 production costs (with the first payments/receipts commencing in June
2007), rather than commencing the remedy on June 1, 2005. The D.C. Circuit
concluded the FERC had failed to offer a reasoned explanation regarding these
issues. The proceeding is pending at the FERC. For information
regarding these and other proceedings associated with the System Agreement, as
well as additional information regarding the System Agreement itself, see the
"
Rate, Cost-recovery, and Other
Regulation – Federal Regulation - 
System Agreement
Proceedings
" section of Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis
for Entergy Corporation and each of the Registrant Subsidiaries
. 
See "
Fuel and purchased power cost
recovery
, 
Entergy Texas
," in
Note 2 to the financial statements for discussion of a PUCT decision that
Entergy Texas is currently challenging regarding its rough production cost
equalization receipts that could result in $18.6 million of trapped costs
between Entergy's Texas and Louisiana jurisdictions. The outcome and
timing of the FERC and these other proceedings and appeals cannot be predicted
at this time.

(Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)

A
delay or failure in recovering amounts for storm restoration costs incurred, as
a result of severe weather could have material adverse effects on Entergy and
those Utility operating companies affected by severe weather.

Entergy's and its Utility operating
companies' results of operations, liquidity and financial condition can be
materially adversely affected by the destructive effects of severe
weather. Severe weather can also result in significant outages for
the customers of the Utility operating companies and, therefore, reduced
revenues for the Utility operating companies during the period of the
outages.
 

A delay or failure in recovering amounts for storm restoration costs
incurred or revenues lost as a result of severe weather could have a material
adverse effect on Entergy and those Utility operating companies affected by
severe weather.

 

 

241

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

Nuclear Operating and
Regulatory Risks

(Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States
 
Louisiana, Entergy
Louisiana, and System Energy)

Certain of the
Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear
subsidiaries must consistently operate their nuclear power plants at high
capacity factors in order to be successful, and lower capacity factors could
materially adversely affect Entergy's and their results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity.

 Nuclear
capacity factors significantly affect certain Utility operating companies',
System Energy's and the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries' results of operations.
Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs, as well as
non-fixed costs associated with plant operating conditions and issues.
Consequently, to be successful, a plant owner must consistently operate its
nuclear power plants at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase
operating costs by requiring the affected companies to generate additional
energy, sometimes at higher costs, from their fossil or hydroelectric facilities
or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy
their supply needs. Although most of the Non-Utility Nuclear forward
sales are on a pure unit-contingent basis, which depends on the availability of
the asset, some of the unit-contingent contracts guarantee a specific capacity
factor. Non-Utility Nuclear forward sales can also be on a Firm LD
basis. In the event these plants were operating below the guaranteed
capacity factors, the unit-contingent contracts carrying damage provisions
would subject the Entergy System to price risk for the undelivered
power.

 

Certain
of the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy's Non-Utility
Nuclear subsidiaries periodically shutdown their nuclear power plants to
replenish fuel. Plant maintenance and upgrades are often scheduled
during such fuel outages. If refueling outages last longer than anticipated or
if unplanned outages arise, Entergy's and their results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity could be materially adversely affected.

Outages
at nuclear power plants to replenish fuel require the plant to be "turned
off." Refueling outages generally are planned to occur once every 18
to 24 months and have historically averaged approximately 30 days in
duration. Plant maintenance and upgrades are often scheduled during
such planned outages. When refueling outages last longer than
anticipated or a plant experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease
and maintenance costs increase. The Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries
may face lower margins due to higher costs and lower energy sales for
unit-contingent power supply contracts or potentially higher energy replacement
costs for unit-contingent contracts with capacity guarantees that are not met
due to extended or unplanned outages.

Certain
of the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy's Non-Utility
Nuclear subsidiaries face risks related to the purchase of uranium fuel (and its
conversion, enrichment and fabrication), and their inability to effectively
manage these risks by purchasing from a diversified mix of sellers located in a
diversified mix of countries could materially adversely affect Entergy's and
their results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Based
upon currently planned fuel cycles, Entergy's nuclear units have a diversified
portfolio of contracts and inventory that provides substantially adequate
nuclear fuel materials and conversion and enrichment services at what Entergy
believes are reasonably predictable prices through most of 2010. It will be
necessary for Entergy to enter into additional arrangements to acquire nuclear
fuel and related services beyond 2010. Entergy's ability to purchase
nuclear fuel at reasonably predictable prices depends upon the creditworthiness
and performance reliability of uranium miners, as well as upon the structure of
Entergy's contracts for the purchase of nuclear fuel. For example, some of the
supply under Entergy's contracts for nuclear fuel is effectively on a
"mine-contingent" basis, which means that if applicable mines are unable to
supply sufficient uranium, Entergy may be required to purchase some nuclear fuel
from another supplier. There are a number of possible alternate suppliers that
may be accessed to mitigate such an event, including potentially drawing upon
Entergy's own inventory intended for later generation periods depending upon its
risk management strategy at that time, although the pricing of any such
alternate uranium supply from the market will be dependent upon the market for
uranium supply at that time. The market for uranium supply became extremely
limited in 2006 and 2007, but this supply shortfall was substantially eliminated
in 2008 and 2009. Market prices for uranium concentrates rose from about $7 per
pound in December 2000 to a 2007 range of $70 to $135 per pound. In
2008, however, market prices for uranium concentrates ranged from $45 to $90 per
pound and from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009 ranged from $40 to $55
per pound. The recent higher nuclear fuel market prices of 2006-2009
compared to the 2000-2005 period affect the U.S. nuclear utility industry,
including Entergy, first in cash flow requirements for fuel acquisition, and
then, some time later, in nuclear fuel expenses. For example, for a nuclear
fleet the size of Entergy's, the current market value of annual
enriched

 

 

242

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

uranium
requirements has increased by several hundred million dollars compared to about
five years ago. As nuclear fuel installed in the core in nuclear power plants is
replaced fractionally over an approximate five-year period, nuclear fuel expense
is beginning to, and will eventually with a time lag, reflect current market
prices and can be expected to increase from the previously reported industry
levels of about 0.5 cents per kWh to closer to 1.0 cent per kWh. Entergy buys
uranium from a diversified mix of sellers located in a diversified mix of
countries, and from time to time purchases from nearly all qualified reliable
major market participants worldwide that sell into the U.S. Entergy's
nuclear fuel contract portfolio has provided a degree of price hedging against
the full extent of market prices through 2010, but market trends will eventually
affect the costs of all nuclear plant operators. Entergy is dependent
on the continued performance by suppliers of their obligations under their
long-term agreements and Entergy’s ability to manage these risks by purchasing
uranium from a diversified mix of sellers located in a diversified mix of
countries. Entergy’s financial results could be materially adversely
affected if Entergy is unable to successfully manage these risks and any one
major supplier fails to fulfill its contractual obligations and Entergy is
unable to find other suppliers that can perform under terms that allow Entergy
to achieve the same level of profitability. As a result of the failure of a
major supplier to meet its contractual obligations or Entergy’s ability to
manage such a risk, Entergy may face higher costs to secure other suppliers,
which may have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity of the Utility operating companies, System Energy and
the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries.

Certain
of the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy's Non-Utility
Nuclear subsidiaries face the risk that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission will
change or modify its regulations or suspend or revoke their licenses, which
could materially adversely affect Entergy's and their results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity.

Under the Atomic Energy Act and Energy
Reorganization Act, the NRC regulates the operation of nuclear power plants. The
NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and
impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related
regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the
Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a
substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased
operating or decommissioning costs and could materially adversely affect the
results of operations, liquidity or financial condition of Entergy (through its
ownership of the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries), its Utility operating
companies, System Energy or the Non-Utility Nuclear
subsidiaries. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as
those owned by one of these companies, may cause the NRC to initiate such
actions. As a result, if an incident were to occur at any nuclear
generating unit –whether an Entergy nuclear generating unit or not - it could
materially adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations and
liquidity of Entergy, certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy
or the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries.

A
failure to obtain renewed licenses for the continued operation of Entergy’s
nuclear power plants could have a material adverse effect on Entergy's
operations and could lead to an increase in depreciation rates or an
acceleration of the timing for the funding of decommissioning
obligations.

The
license renewal and related processes for Entergy's nuclear power plants has
been and may continue to be the subject of significant public debate and
regulatory and legislative review and scrutiny at the federal and, in certain
cases, state level. The operating licenses for Vermont Yankee,
Pilgrim, Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3 expire between 2012 and 2015. Various
parties have expressed opposition to the pending license renewal
applications. There is an ongoing proceeding before the Atomic Safety
and Licensing Board of the NRC and contentions have been admitted for litigation
regarding the Indian Point license renewals. The Atomic Safety and Licensing
Board has completed its proceedings regarding

 

 

243

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

Vermont
Yankee, but the New England Coalition filed a petition for NRC review of the
Atomic Safety Licensing Board’s decision on July 23, 2009. Finally, with respect
to the Pilgrim license renewal, the NRC has issued decisions resolving most of
the issues that were previously on appeal, but the NRC has asked for further
briefing regarding one final issue, which could later be referred back for
further proceedings before the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board. In addition, a
group of environmental and civic organizations has filed a petition with the NRC
seeking a suspension of the currently pending license renewal proceedings for
Indian Point, Pilgrim and Vermont Yankee.

In
relation to Indian Point 2 and Indian Point 3, the New York Department of
Environmental Conservation has taken the position that Indian Point must obtain
a new state-issued Clean Water Act Section 401 water quality certification as
part of the license renewal process. Indian Point also must obtain a Coastal
Zone Management Act consistency determination from the New York Department of
State prior to getting its renewed license.

In
addition to the NRC license renewal process with respect to Vermont Yankee,
under Vermont law the Vermont Public Service Board will need to amend the
certificate of public good held by Entergy Vermont Yankee, LLC and Entergy
Nuclear Operations, Inc., which also requires Vermont legislative approval, and
the Vermont Public Service Board and the Vermont legislature must approve and
the Vermont Public Service Board must issue a certificate of public good for the
continued operation of Vermont Yankee and storing of spent fuel generated in
Vermont after March 21, 2012. An application has been filed with the Vermont
Public Service Board (as required by Vermont law) for approval of continued
operation and storage of spent nuclear fuel generated after that date. During
its 2009 session, which concluded in May, several committees of the Vermont
General Assembly held hearings on Vermont Yankee, but no bill or resolution was
introduced for approval of continued operation and storage of spent nuclear fuel
generated after March 21, 2012. In January 2010, the Governor of the
State of Vermont issued a statement indicating he would not ask the Vermont
General Assembly to consider the Vermont Yankee license renewal during its 2010
session, based on the discovery of tritium leakage from Vermont Yankee, concerns
about miscommunication by Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee and Entergy Nuclear
Operations related to underground piping at Vermont Yankee carrying
radionuclides, and other issues including
decommissioning. Notwithstanding the Governor's position, on February
24, 2010, a bill to approve the continued operation of Vermont Yankee was
advanced to a vote by the Vermont Senate leadership and defeated by a margin of
26 to 4. This vote does not preclude the Vermont Senate from voting
again on a similar bill in the future. 

 

If the
NRC does not renew the operating licenses for one or more of Entergy's nuclear
power plants, or the states in which Entergy’s nuclear power plants are located
do not otherwise take the necessary actions for the continued operation of these
plants, to the extent applicable, Entergy’s results of operations could be
materially adversely affected by loss of revenue associated with the plant or
plants, potential impairments of the carrying value of the plants, increased
depreciation rates, and an accelerated need for decommissioning funds, which
could require additional funding. In addition, Entergy may incur increased
operating costs depending on any conditions that may be imposed in connection
with license renewal.

Certain of the
Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear
subsidiaries are exposed to risks and costs related to operating and
maintaining their aging nuclear power plants, and their failure to
maintain operational efficiency at their nuclear power plants could materially
adversely affect Entergy's and their results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity.

The nuclear generating units owned by
certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy,
 
and
Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear business began commercial operations in the
1970s-1980s. Older equipment may require significant capital
expenditures to keep each of these nuclear power plants operating efficiently.
This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and
improvement. Any unexpected failure, including failure associated
with breakdowns, forced outages or any unanticipated capital expenditures, could
result in reduced profitability. Operations at any of the nuclear
generating units owned and operated by Entergy's subsidiaries could degrade to
the point where the affected unit needs to be shut down or operated at less than
full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may
require significant time and expense. A decision may be made to close a unit
rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the unit to full
capacity. For the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries, this could result in lost
revenue and increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply
commitments and penalties for failure to perform under their contracts with
customers. Moreover, Entergy is becoming more dependent on fewer
suppliers for key parts of Entergy's nuclear power plants that may need to be
replaced or refurbished. This dependence on a reduced number of
suppliers could result in delays in obtaining qualified replacement parts and,
therefore, greater expense for Entergy.

 

 

244

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

The costs
associated with the storage of the spent nuclear fuel of certain of the Utility
operating companies, System Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries, as
well as the costs of and their ability to fully decommission their nuclear power
plants, could be significantly affected by the timing of the opening of a spent
nuclear fuel storage facility, as well as interim storage and transportation
requirements.

Certain of the Utility operating
companies, System Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries incur costs on
an annual basis for the on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel. The
approval of a national repository for the storage of spent nuclear fuel, such as
the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility
opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of spent
nuclear fuel. For example, while the DOE is required by law to
proceed with the licensing of Yucca Mountain and, after the license is granted
by the NRC, to construct the repository and commence the receipt of spent fuel,
the Obama administration has cut the budget for the Yucca Mountain project, and
has made various statements that Yucca Mountain will not be the solution for
spent fuel storage. These actions are likely to prolong the time before spent
fuel is removed from Entergy’s plant sites. Because the DOE has not accomplished
its objectives, it is in non-compliance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of
1982 and has breached its spent fuel disposal contracts. Furthermore, Entergy is
uncertain as to when the DOE plans to commence acceptance of spent fuel from its
facilities for storage or disposal. As a result, continuing future expenditures
will be required to increase spent fuel storage capacity at its nuclear sites.
The costs of on-site storage are also affected by regulatory requirements for
such storage and will be subject to the costs of transportation to a permanent
storage facility. In addition, the availability of a repository for spent
nuclear fuel may affect the ability to fully decommission the nuclear units and
the costs relating to decommissioning.

Certain of the
Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear
subsidiaries may be required to pay substantial retrospective
premiums imposed under the Price-Anderson Act in the event of a nuclear
incident, and losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse
effect on Entergy's and their results of operations, financial condition or
liquidity.

Accidents and other unforeseen problems
at nuclear power plants have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere.
The consequences of an accident can be severe and include personal injury, loss
of life and property damage. The Price-Anderson Act limits each
reactor owner's public liability (off-site) for a single nuclear incident to the
payment of retrospective premiums into a secondary insurance pool of up to
approximately $117.5 million per reactor. With 104 reactors currently
participating, this translates to a total public liability cap of approximately
$12.2 billion per incident. The limit is subject to change to account
for the effects of inflation, a change in the primary limit of insurance
coverage, and changes in the number of licensed reactors. As required
by the Price-Anderson Act, the Utility operating companies, System Energy, and
Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries carry the maximum available amount of primary
nuclear liability insurance with American Nuclear Insurers (currently $375
million for each operating site). Claims for any nuclear incident
exceeding that amount are covered under the retrospective premiums paid into the
secondary insurance pool. As a result, in the event of a nuclear
incident that causes damages (off-site) in excess of the $375 million in primary
insurance coverage, each owner of a nuclear plant reactor, including Entergy's
Utility operating companies, System Energy, and the Non-Utility Nuclear plant
owners, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident, will be required to
pay a retrospective premium, equal to its proportionate share of the loss in
excess of the $375 million primary level, up to a maximum of $117.5 million per
reactor per incident (Entergy's maximum total contingent obligation per incident
is $1.3 billion). The retrospective premium payment is currently
limited to $17.5 million per year per reactor until the aggregate public
liability for each licensee is paid up to the $117.5 million cap. Nuclear
accident damage to on-site facilities is covered by Nuclear Electric Insurance
Limited up to the limits of the primary and excess property policies in force at
the time of the accident. As an owner of nuclear power plants,
Entergy participates in these mandatory industry self-insurance programs and
could be liable to fund claims should a plant owned by a different company
experience a major event. Any resulting liability from a nuclear
accident may exceed any of the Utility operating companies', System Energy's, or
the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries' primary insurance coverage, and require
contribution of additional funds through the industry-wide program that could
significantly affect the results of operations, financial condition or liquidity
of Entergy, certain of the Utility operating companies, System Energy or the
Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries.

 

 

245

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

Market
performance and other changes may decrease the value of assets in the
decommissioning trusts, which then could require significant additional
funding.

Owners of nuclear generating plants
have an obligation to decommission those plants. Certain of the Utility
operating companies, System Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries
maintain decommissioning trust funds for this purpose. Certain of the
Utility operating companies collect funds from their customers, which are
deposited into the trusts covering the units operated for or on behalf of those
companies. Those rate collections are based upon operating license lives as well
as estimated trust fund earnings and decommissioning costs. In connection with
the acquisition of certain nuclear plants, the Entergy Non-Utility Nuclear
subsidiaries also acquired decommissioning trust funds that are funded in
accordance with NRC regulations. Assets in these trust funds are
subject to market fluctuations, will yield uncertain returns that may fall below
projected return rates, and may result in losses resulting from the recognition
of impairments of the value of certain securities held in these trust
funds. As part of the Pilgrim, Indian Point 1 and 2, Vermont Yankee,
and Palisades/Big Rock Point purchases, the former owners transferred
decommissioning trust funds, along with the liability to decommission the
plants, to Entergy. As part of the Indian Point 1 and 2 purchase, Entergy also
funded an additional $25 million to a supplemental ecommissioning trust
fund. As part of the Palisades transaction, Non-Utility Nuclear
assumed responsibility for spent fuel at the decommissioned Big Rock Point
nuclear plant, which is located near Charlevoix, Michigan. Once the spent fuel
is removed from the site, Non-Utility Nuclear will dismantle the spent fuel
storage facility and complete site decommissioning. Non-Utility
Nuclear expects to fund this activity from operating revenue, and Entergy is
providing $5 million in credit support to provide financial assurance for this
obligation to the NRC.

In 2008,
Entergy experienced declines in the market value of assets held in the trust
funds for meeting its decommissioning funding assurance obligations for its
plants. This decline adversely affected Entergy’s ability to
demonstrate compliance with the NRC’s requirements for providing financial
assurance for decommissioning funding for some of its plants. In June
2009, the NRC issued letters indicating that the NRC staff had concluded that
there were shortfalls in the amount of decommissioning funding assurance
provided for Indian Point 2, Vermont Yankee, Palisades, Waterford 3, and River
Bend. The NRC staff subsequently conducted a telephone conference with Entergy
on this issue and, in August 2009, Entergy submitted a plan for addressing the
identified shortfalls. In its submittal, Entergy provided updated
analyses to the NRC indicating that there was no current shortfall in the
amounts of the required decommissioning funding assurance for Palisades and
Indian Point 2, based upon the trust fund balances as of July 31, 2009 and an
analysis of the costs that would be incurred if Entergy elected to use a
sixty-year period of safe storage for decommissioning, as permitted by the NRC's
rules. In December 2009 the NRC accepted the analyses regarding
Palisades and Indian Point and, with respect to each plant, the NRC concluded
that no further action was required. For Vermont Yankee, Entergy
concluded that, when using the July 31, 2009 trust fund balance, and based on an
analysis of the costs that would be incurred if Entergy elected to use a sixty
year period of safe storage for decommissioning as permitted by the NRC’s rules,
there was a shortfall of approximately $58 million, which could be satisfied
with a cash contribution to a decommissioning trust of approximately $51
million, or by using another financial assurance mechanism in the amount of
approximately $58 million. In September 2009, the NRC requested
further information regarding plans to address the shortfall in decommissioning
funding assurance for Vermont Yankee, which Entergy provided in October
2009. Based on the trust fund balance as of September 30, 2009, the
shortfall had decreased from $58 million to $40 million. This $40
million shortfall was satisfied with a $40 million guarantee from Entergy
Corporation that was effective as of December 31, 2009. For Waterford
3 and River Bend, Entergy made the appropriate filings by December 31, 2009 with
its retail regulators that request decommissioning funding from ratepayers to
address the shortfalls identified by the NRC.

An early plant shutdown, poor
investment results (depending on the performance of and volatility in the
capital markets) or higher than anticipated decommissioning costs could cause
trust fund assets to be insufficient to meet the decommissioning obligations,
with the result that the Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries may be required to
provide additional funds or credit support to satisfy regulatory requirements
for decommissioning. For further information regarding nuclear
decommissioning costs, see the "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
 –
Nuclear Decommissioning Costs
" section of Management's Financial
Discussion and Analysis for Entergy, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy and Note 9 to the financial
statements.

 

 

246

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

New
or existing safety concerns regarding operating nuclear power plants and nuclear
fuel could lead to restrictions upon the operation of Entergy’s nuclear power
plants.

New and
existing concerns are being expressed in public forums about the safety of
nuclear generating units and nuclear fuel, in particular in the northeastern
United States, which is where five of the six units in the current fleet of
Non-Utility Nuclear generating units are located. These concerns have
led to, and are expected to continue to lead to, various proposals to Federal
regulators and governing bodies in some localities where Entergy's subsidiaries
own nuclear generating units for legislative and regulatory changes that could
lead to the shut-down of nuclear units, denial of license renewal applications,
municipalization of nuclear units, restrictions on nuclear units as a result of
unavailability of sites for spent nuclear fuel storage and disposal, or other
adverse effects on owning and operating nuclear generating
units. Entergy vigorously responds to these concerns and
proposals. If any of the existing proposals, or any proposals that
may arise in the future with respect to legislative and regulatory changes,
become effective, they could have a material adverse effect on Entergy's results
of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

(Entergy
Corporation)

The
decommissioning trust fund assets for the nuclear power plants owned by
Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries may not be adequate to meet
decommissioning obligations if one or more of their nuclear power plants is
retired earlier than the anticipated shutdown date or if current regulatory
requirements change which then could require additional
funding.

 

Under
Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations, Entergy is permitted to project the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission-required decommissioning amount based on a Nuclear
Regulatory Commission formula and the amount in each of its Non-Utility Nuclear
nuclear power plant's decommissioning trusts. The projections are made based on
the scheduled shutdown date and the mid-point of the subsequent decommissioning
process for each of these nuclear power plants, with the earliest
scheduled shutdown being Vermont Yankee in 2012. As a result, if the projected
amount of our decommissioning trusts exceeds the projected Nuclear Regulatory
Commission-required decommissioning amount, then its decommissioning obligations
are considered to be funded in accordance with Nuclear Regulatory Commission
regulations. In the event the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's formula does not
sufficiently reflect the actual costs Entergy would be required to incur to
decommission these nuclear power plants, additional resources would be required.
Furthermore, depending upon the level of funding available in the trust funds,
the Nuclear Regulatory Commission may not permit the trust funds to be used to
pay for related costs such as the management of spent nuclear fuel that are not
included in the formula. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission may also require that
separate financial assurances be provided as part of a plan for the funding of
spent fuel management costs. In addition to Nuclear Regulatory Commission
requirements, certain of the states in which Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear
nuclear power plants are located have imposed other decommissioning related
obligations, which Entergy believes it will be able to satisfy.

With
respect to the decommissioning trusts for Vermont Yankee, Indian Point 2 and
Palisades, the total amount in each of those trusts as of December 31, 2009
would not have been sufficient to initiate and complete the immediate near-term
decommissioning of the respective unit as of such date, but rather the funds
would have been sufficient to place the unit in a condition of safe storage
status pending future completion of decommissioning. For example, if Entergy had
decided to shutdown and immediately begin decommissioning one of those nuclear
power plants on December 31, 2009, its trust funds for the plant would have
been insufficient and Entergy would have been required to rely on other capital
resources to fund the entire decommissioning obligations unless the completion
of decommissioning could be deferred during some number of years of safe storage
status. Thus, if Entergy decides to shutdown one of these nuclear power plants
earlier than the scheduled shutdown date, Entergy may be unable to rely upon
only the decommissioning trust to fund the entire decommissioning obligations,
which would require it to obtain funding from other sources.

Further,
federal or state regulatory changes, including mandated increases in
decommissioning funding, may also increase the funding requirements of, or
accelerate the timing for funding of, the obligations related to the
decommissioning of its Non-Utility Nuclear nuclear power plants. As a result,
under any of these circumstances, Entergy's results of operations, liquidity and
financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

 

 

247

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

The
nuclear power plants owned by Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear business will be
exposed to price risk to the extent they must compete for the advance sale of
energy and capacity or accept spot prices in the day-ahead markets.

Entergy
and its subsidiaries are not guaranteed any rate of return on their capital
investments in non-utility regulated businesses. In particular, the sale of
capacity and energy from the nuclear power plants owned by Entergy's Non-Utility
Nuclear business, unless otherwise contracted, is subject to the fluctuation of
market power prices. As of December 31, 2009, the nuclear power
generation plants owned by Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear business had sold
forward 88%, 74%, 32%, 18% and 17% of its generation portfolio's planned energy
output for 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014, respectively. Many of
Entergy’s Non-Utility Nuclear business’s existing long-term contracts expire by
the end of 2012. The obligations under most of these agreements are
contingent on a generating asset that is operating; if the generation asset is
not operating, the seller generally is not liable for damages. For
some unit-contingent obligations, however, there is also a guarantee of
availability that provides for the payment to the power purchaser of contract
damages, if incurred, in the event the unit owner fails to deliver power as a
result of the failure of the specified generation unit to generate power at or
above a specified availability threshold. In addition, for those obligations
that are not unit-contingent, the unit owner will be required to pay the
purchaser the difference between the market price at the delivery point and the
contract price, and the amount of such payments could be
substantial.

Market
prices may fluctuate substantially sometimes over relatively short periods of
time and at other times experience sustained increases or
decreases. Demand for electricity and its fuel stock can fluctuate
dramatically, creating periods of substantial under- or
over-supply. During periods of over-supply, prices might be
depressed. Also, from time to time there may be political pressure, or pressure
from regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over wholesale and retail energy
commodity and transportation rates, to impose price limitations, credit
requirements, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address volatility and other
issues in these markets.

The price
that different counterparties offer for forward sales is influenced both by
market conditions as well as the contract terms such as damage provisions,
credit support requirements and the number of available counterparties
interested in contracting for the desired forward period. Depending
on differences between market factors at the time of contracting versus current
conditions, Non-Utility Nuclear's contract portfolio may have average contract
prices above or or below current market prices, including at the expiration of
the contracts, which could significantly affect Non-Utility Nuclear's results of
operations, financial condition and liquidity.

Among the
factors that could affect market prices for electricity and fuel, all of which
are beyond Entergy's control to a significant degree, are:

· 

prevailing
 market prices for natural gas, uranium (and its conversion, enrichment and
 fabrication), coal, oil, and other fuels used in electric generation
 plants, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such
 commodities;

· 

seasonality;

· 

availability
 of competitively priced alternative energy sources and the requirements of
 a renewable portfolio standard;

· 

changes
 in production and storage levels of natural gas, lignite, coal and crude
 oil and refined products;

· 

liquidity
 in the general wholesale electricity market, including the number of
 creditworthy counterparties available and interested in entering into
 forward sales agreements for Entergy’s full hedging
 term;

· 

the
 actions of external parties, such as the FERC and local independent system
 operators and other state or Federal energy regulatory bodies, that may
 impose price limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the
 volatility in the energy markets;

· 

transmission
 or fuel transportation constraints, inoperability or
 inefficiencies;

· 

the
 general demand for electricity, which may be significantly affected by
 regional economic conditions;

· 

weather
 conditions affecting demand for electricity or availability of
 hydroelectric power or fuel
supplies;

· 

the
 rate of growth in demand for electricity as a result of population
 changes, regional economic conditions and the implementation of
 conservation programs;

 

 

248

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

 

· 

regulatory
 policies of state agencies that affect the willingness of Entergy's
 Non-Utility Nuclear customers to enter into long-term contracts generally,
 and contracts for energy in
particular;

· 

increases
 in supplies due to actions of current Entergy Non-Utility Nuclear
 competitors or new market entrants, including the development of new
 generation facilities, expansion of existing generation facilities, the
 disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities and improvements in
 transmission that allow additional supply to reach Entergy's Non-Utility
 Nuclear markets;

· 

union
 and labor relations;

· 

changes
 in Federal and state energy and environmental laws and regulations and
 other initiatives, including but not limited to, the price impacts of
 proposed emission controls such as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative
 (RGGI); and

· 

natural
 disasters, terrorist actions, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic
 events.

Entergy's
Non-Utility Nuclear business is subject to substantial governmental regulation
and may be adversely affected by legislative, regulatory or market design
changes, as well as liability under, or any future inability to comply with,
existing or future regulations or requirements.

Entergy's
Non-Utility Nuclear business is subject to extensive federal, state and local
laws and regulation. Compliance with the requirements under these various
regulatory regimes may cause the Non-Utility Nuclear business to incur
significant additional costs, and failure to comply with such requirements could
result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens,
fines and/or civil or criminal liability.

 

Public
utilities under the Federal Power Act are required to obtain FERC acceptance of
their rate schedules for wholesale sales of electricity. Each of the Non-Utility
Nuclear business's nuclear power plants, as well as Entergy Nuclear Power
Marketing, LLC, is a "public utility" under the Federal Power Act by virtue of
making wholesale sales of electric energy. The FERC has granted these
generating and power marketing companies the authority to sell electricity at
market-based rates. The FERC’s orders that grant the Non-Utility
Nuclear business's generating and power marketing companies market-based rate
authority reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if the FERC
subsequently determines that the Non-Utility Nuclear business can exercise
market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry, or engage
in abusive affiliate transactions. In addition, the Non-Utility Nuclear
business's market-based sales are subject to certain market behavior rules, and
if any of its generating and power marketing companies were deemed to have
violated one of those rules, they would be subject to potential disgorgement of
profits associated with the violation and/or suspension or revocation of their
market-based rate authority and potential penalties of up to $1 million per day
per violation. If the Non-Utility Nuclear business's generating or
power marketing companies were to lose their market-based rate authority, such
companies would be required to obtain the FERC’s acceptance of a cost-of-service
rate schedule and could become subject to the accounting, record-keeping and
reporting requirements that are imposed on utilities with cost-based rate
schedules. This could have an adverse effect on the rates the
Non-Utility Nuclear business charges for power from its facilities.

 

The
Non-Utility Nuclear business is also affected by legislative and regulatory
changes, as well as changes to market design, market rules, tariffs, cost
allocations and bidding rules imposed by the existing Independent System
Operators. The Independent System Operators that oversee most of the
wholesale power markets impose, and in the future may continue to impose,
mitigation, including price limitations, offer caps and other mechanisms, to
address some of the volatility and the potential exercise of market power in
these markets. These types of price limitations and other regulatory
mechanisms may have an adverse effect on the profitability of the Non-Utility
Nuclear business's generation facilities that sell energy and capacity into the
wholesale power markets.

 

The
regulatory environment applicable to the electric power industry has undergone
substantial changes over the past several years as a result of restructuring
initiatives at both the state and federal levels. These changes are
ongoing and Entergy cannot predict the future design of the wholesale power
markets or the ultimate effect that the changing regulatory environment will
have on the Non-Utility Nuclear business. In addition, in some of
these markets, interested parties have proposed material market design changes,
including the elimination of a single clearing price mechanism and claims that
the competitive marketplace is not working because energy prices in wholesale
markets exceed the marginal cost of operating nuclear power plants, as well as
proposals to re-regulate the markets, impose a generation tax or require
divestitures by generating companies to reduce their market share.

 

 

249

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

Other
proposals to re-regulate may be made and legislative or other attention to the
electric power market restructuring process may delay or reverse the
deregulation process, which could require material changes to business planning
models. If competitive restructuring of the electric power markets is
reversed, modified, discontinued or delayed, the Non-Utility Nuclear business's
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity could be materially
adversely affected.

 

General Business
Risks

(Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)

Entergy
and the Utility operating companies depend on access to the capital markets and,
at times, may face potential liquidity constraints, which could make it more
difficult to handle future contingencies such as natural disasters or
substantial increases in gas and fuel prices. Disruptions in the
capital and credit markets may adversely affect Entergy and its subsidiaries'
ability to meet liquidity needs, access capital and operate and grow their
businesses, and the cost of capital.

Entergy's
business is capital intensive and dependent upon its ability to access capital
at reasonable rates and other terms. At times there are also spikes
in the price for natural gas and other commodities that increase the liquidity
requirements of the Utility operating companies. In addition,
Entergy's and the Utility operating companies' liquidity needs could
significantly increase in the event of a hurricane or other weather-related or
unforeseen disaster similar to that experienced in Entergy's service territory
with Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita in 2005 and Hurricane Gustav and
Hurricane Ike in 2008. The occurrence of one or more contingencies,
including a delay in regulatory recovery of fuel or purchased power costs or
storm restoration costs, higher than expected pension contributions, an
acceleration of payments or decreased credit lines, less cash flow from
operations than expected or other unknown events, such as future storms, could
cause the financing needs of Entergy and its subsidiaries to
increase. In addition, accessing the capital markets more frequently
in these situations may result in an increase in leverage. Material
leverage increases could negatively affect the credit ratings of Entergy and the
Utility operating companies, which in turn could negatively affect access to the
capital markets.

The
global capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption
in the fourth quarter of 2008 and much of 2009. The inability to
raise capital on favorable terms, particularly during times of uncertainty in
the capital markets, could negatively affect Entergy and its subsidiaries'
ability to maintain and to expand their businesses. Events beyond
Entergy's control, such as the volatility and disruption in global capital and
credit markets in 2008 and 2009, may create uncertainty that could increase its
cost of capital or impair its ability to access the capital markets, including
the ability to draw on its bank credit facilities. Entergy and its
subsidiaries are unable to predict the degree of success they will have in
renewing or replacing their credit facilities as they come up for
renewal. Moreover, the size, terms, and covenants of any new credit
facilities may not be comparable to, and may be more restrictive than, existing
facilities. If Entergy and its subsidiaries are unable to access the
credit and capital markets on terms that are reasonable, they may have to delay
raising capital, issue shorter-term securities and/or bear an unfavorable cost
of capital, which, in turn, could impact their ability to grow their businesses,
decrease earnings, significantly reduce financial flexibility and/or limit
Entergy's ability to sustain its current common stock dividend
level.

(Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System
Energy)

A downgrade in Entergy
Corporation
'
s or its
subsidiaries
'
 credit
ratings could negatively affect Entergy Corporation
'
s and its subsidiaries
'
 ability to access capital and/or
could require Entergy Corporation or its subsidiaries to post collateral,
accelerate certain payments or repay certain indebtedness.

 

 

250

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

There are
a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings
for Entergy Corporation and the Registrant Subsidiaries, including the ability
to cover liquidity requirements, the availability of committed external credit
support, and Entergy Corporation's share repurchase program, dividend policy and
other commitments for capital. If one or more rating agencies
downgrade Entergy Corporation's, any of the Utility operating companies', or
System Entergy's ratings, particularly below investment grade, borrowing costs
would increase, the potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely
decrease, and cash or letter of credit quality collateral demands may be
triggered by the terms of a number of commodity contracts, leases and other
agreements.

Most of
Entergy Corporation's and its subsidiaries' large customers, suppliers and
counterparties require sufficient creditworthiness to enter into
transactions. If Entergy Corporation's or its subsidiaries' ratings
decline, particularly below investment grade, or if certain counterparties
believe Entergy Corporation or the Utility operating companies are losing
creditworthiness and demand adequate assurance under fuel, gas and purchased
power contracts, the counterparties may require posting of collateral in cash or
letters of credit, prepayment for fuel, gas or purchased power or accelerated
payment, or counterparties may decline business with Entergy Corporation or its
subsidiaries. At December 31, 2009, based on power prices at that time, Entergy
had $369 million of collateral in place to support Entergy Nuclear Power
Marketing transactional activity, consisting primarily of Entergy Corporation
guarantees, but also including $20 million of guarantees that support letters of
credit and $2 million of cash collateral. As of December 31, 2009, the credit
exposure associated with Non-Utility Nuclear assurance requirements could
increase by an estimated amount of up to $308 million for each $1 per MMBtu
increase in gas prices in both the short- and long-term markets, but because
market prices have fallen below most contract prices, the credit exposure would
increase by only $8 million. In the event of a decrease in Entergy
Corporation's credit rating to below investment grade, based on power prices as
of December 31, 2009, Entergy would have been required to provide approximately
$73 million of additional cash or letters of credit under some of the
agreements. The amount of Entergy Corporation guarantees Entergy
would be required to replace will fluctuate depending on changes in power
prices.

The
construction of, and capital improvements to, power generation facilities
involve substantial risks. Should construction or capital improvement
efforts be unsuccessful, the financial conditions, results of operations or
liquidity of Entergy and the Utility operating companies could be
materially adversely affected.

Entergy's
and the Utility operating companies' ability to complete construction of power
generation facilities in a timely manner and within budget is contingent upon
many variables and subject to substantial risks. These variables include,
but are not limited to, project management expertise and escalating costs for
materials, labor and environmental compliance. Delays in obtaining permits,
shortages in materials and qualified labor, suppliers and contractors not
performing as required under their contracts, changes in the scope and timing of
projects, the inability to raise capital on favorable terms, and other events
beyond the control of the Utility operating companies may occur that may
materially affect the schedule, cost and performance of these
projects. If these projects are significantly delayed or become
subject to cost overruns or cancellation, Entergy and the Utility operating
companies could incur additional costs and termination payments, or face
increased risk of potential write-off of the investment in the
project. For further information regarding capital expenditure plans
and other uses of capital in connection with the potential construction of
additional generation supply sources within the Utility operating companies'
service territory, see the "
Capital
Expenditure Plans and Other Uses of Capital
" section of Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis for Entergy and each of the Registrant
Subsidiaries.

The
Utility operating companies, System Energy and Entergy's Non-Utility Nuclear
business may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to
reliability standards, environmental, and other matters.

 

The
businesses in which the Utility operating companies, System Energy and the
Non-Utility Nuclear business operate are subject to extensive environmental
regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and
regulations affect the manner in which the Utility operating companies, System
Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear business conduct their operations and make
capital expenditures. These laws and regulations also affect how the
Utility operating companies, System Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear business
manage air emissions, discharges to water, solid and hazardous waste storage and
disposal, cooling and service water intake, the protection of threatened and
endangered

 

 

 

251

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

species,
hazardous materials transportation, and similar matters. Federal, state,
and local authorities continually revise these laws and regulations, and the
laws and regulations are subject to judicial interpretation and to the
permitting and enforcement discretion vested in the implementing agencies.
Developing and implementing plans for facility compliance with these
requirements can lead to capital, personnel, and operation and maintenance
expenditures. Violations of these requirements can subject the Utility
operating companies, System Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear business to
enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into
compliance, additional operating costs or operating restrictions to achieve
compliance, remediation and clean-up costs, civil penalties, and exposure to
third parties' claims for alleged health or property damages or for violations
of applicable permits or standards. In addition, the Utility operating
companies, System Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear business are subject to
liability under these laws for the costs of remediation of environmental
contamination of property now or formerly owned or operated by the Utility
operating companies, System Energy and the Non-Utility Nuclear business and of
property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Utility
operating companies are currently involved in proceedings relating to sites
where hazardous substances have been released and may be subject to additional
proceedings in the future. The Utility operating companies, System Energy
and the Non-Utility Nuclear business have incurred and expect to incur
significant costs related to environmental compliance.

Emissions
of nitrogen and sulfur oxides, mercury, particulates, and other regulated air
contaminants from fossil-fueled generating plants are potentially subject to
increased regulation, controls and mitigation expenses. In addition,
existing air regulations and programs promulgated by the EPA often are
challenged legally, sometimes resulting in large-scale changes to anticipated
regulatory regimes. Risks relating to global climate change and
initiatives to compel CO
2
 emission
reductions are discussed below.

Entergy's
business is also subject to extensive and mandatory reliability
standards. Such standards, which are established by the North
American Electric Reliability Corporation and the SERC Reliability Corporation,
are approved by the FERC and currently are being reviewed and
amended. Significant capital expenditures for the Utility operating
companies' transmission system could be required to achieve on-going compliance
with the requirements under these regimes, and failure to comply with such
requirements could result in the imposition of fines or civil penalties, and
exposure to third party claims for alleged violations of applicable
standards. The laws and regulations are subject to judicial
interpretation and to the enforcement discretion vested in the implementing
agencies. The changes to the reliability requirements applicable to
the electric power industry are ongoing, and Entergy cannot predict the ultimate
effect that the changing reliability requirements will have on its
business. 

 

Entergy
and its subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain all required
environmental regulatory approvals. If there is a delay in obtaining any
required environmental regulatory approvals, or if Entergy and its subsidiaries
fail to obtain, maintain or comply with any such approval, the operation of its
facilities could be stopped or become subject to additional costs. For further
information regarding environmental regulation and environmental matters, see
the "
Regulation
of Entergy
'
s
Business
 – Environmental
Regulation
" section of Part I Item 1.

(Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas)

The effects of weather and economic
conditions and the related impact on electricity and gas usage, may materially
adversely affect the Utility operating companies
'
 results of
operations.

Temperatures
above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity
demand and revenues, and temperatures below moderate levels in the winter tend
to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and
revenues. As a corollary, moderate temperatures tend to decrease
usage of energy and resulting revenues. Seasonal pricing differentials, coupled
with higher consumption levels, typically cause the Utility operating companies
to report higher revenues in the third quarter of the fiscal year than in the
other quarters. Extreme weather conditions or
storms, however, may stress the Utility operating companies'
generation facilities and transmission and distribution systems, resulting in
increased maintenance and capital costs (and potential increased financing
needs), limits on their ability to meet peak customer demand, increased
regulatory oversight, and lower customer satisfaction. These extreme
conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Utility operating
companies' financial condition, results of operations and
liquidity.

 

 

252

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

Industrial
sales volume was depressed in the latter part of 2008 and through most of 2009,
in part because the overall economy declined, with lower usage across the
industrial sector affecting both the large customer industrial segment as well
as small and mid-sized industrial customers. Despite the apparently
improving economic conditions in the service territories of the Utility
operating companies in the fourth quarter of 2009, it is possible that
continued or recurrent poor economic conditions, combined with increasing rates
in certain of the Utility operating companies' service territories, could result
in slower or declining sales growth and increased bad debt expense relative to
recent years, which could materially adversely affect Entergy's and the Utility
operating companies' results of operations, financial condition and
liquidity.

The effects of climate change and
environmental and regulatory obligations intended to compel CO
2
 emission
reductions could materially adversely affect the financial condition, results of
operations and liquidity of Entergy and the Utility operating
companies.

In an
effort to address climate change concerns, Federal, state, and local authorities
are calling for additional laws and regulations aimed at known or suspected
causes of climate change. For example, in response to the United
States Supreme Court's 2007 decision holding that the EPA has authority to
regulate emissions of CO
2
 and other
"greenhouse gases" under the Clean Air Act, the EPA, various environmental
interest groups and other organizations are focusing considerable attention on
CO
2

emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate
change. Developing and implementing plans for compliance with CO
2
 emissions
reduction requirements can lead to additional capital, personnel, and operation
and maintenance expenditures. Violations of such requirements may subject
Entergy and the Utility operating companies to enforcement actions, capital
expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating
costs or operating restrictions to achieve compliance, remediation and clean-up
costs, civil penalties, and exposure to third parties' claims for alleged health
or property damages or for violations of applicable permits or
standards. To the extent Entergy believes any of these costs are
recoverable in rates, however, additional material rate increases for customers
could be resisted by Entergy's regulators and, in extreme cases, Entergy's
regulators might deny or defer timely recovery of these costs. Future
changes in environmental regulation governing the emission of CO
2
 and other
"greenhouse gases" could make some of Entergy's electric generating units
uneconomical to maintain or operate, and could increase the difficulty that
Entergy and its subsidiaries have with obtaining or maintaining required
environmental regulatory approvals, which could also materially adversely affect
the financial condition, results of operations and liquidity of Entergy and the
Utility operating companies. In addition, several lawsuits currently
are pending against emitters of greenhouse gases alleging that these companies
are liable for personal injuries and property damage caused by climate
change. These lawsuits seek injunctive relief, monetary compensation
and punitive damages.

In addition to the regulatory and
financial risks associated with climate change discussed above, physical risks
from climate change include an increase in sea level, wetland and barrier island
erosion, risks of flooding and changes in weather conditions, such as changes in
precipitation, average temperatures and potential increased impacts of extreme
weather conditions or storms. Entergy owns assets in, and serves,
communities that are at risk from sea level rise, changes in weather conditions,
storms and loss of the protection offered by coastal wetlands. A
significant portion of the nation’s oil and gas infrastructure is located in
these areas and susceptible to storm damage that could be aggravated by wetland
and barrier island erosion, which could give rise to fuel supply interruptions
and price spikes.

These and other physical changes could
result in changes in customer demand, increased costs associated with repairing
and maintaining generation facilities and transmission and distribution systems
resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs (and potential increased
financing needs), limits on the Entergy System's ability to meet peak customer
demand, increased regulatory oversight, and lower customer
satisfaction. Also, to the extent that climate change adversely
impacts the economic health of a region or results in energy conservation or
demand side management programs, it may adversely impact customer demand and
revenues. Such physical or operational risks could have a material
adverse effect on Entergy's and the Utility operating companies' financial
condition, results of operations and liquidity.

Entergy
and its subsidiaries may not be adequately hedged against changes in commodity
prices, which could materially adversely affect Entergy's and its subsidiaries'
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.

 

 

253

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

To manage
their near-term financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations,
Entergy and its subsidiaries may enter into contracts to hedge portions of their
purchase and sale commitments, weather positions, fuel requirements and
inventories of natural gas, uranium (and its conversion), lignite, coal, refined
products, and other commodities, within established risk management
guidelines. As part of this strategy, Entergy and its subsidiaries
may utilize fixed- and variable-price forward physical purchase and sales
contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the
over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. However, Entergy and its
subsidiaries normally cover only a portion of the exposure of their assets and
positions to market price volatility, and the coverage will vary over
time. In addition, Entergy also elects to leave certain volumes
during certain years unhedged. To the extent Entergy and its
subsidiaries have unhedged positions, fluctuating commodity prices can
materially adversely affect Entergy's and its subsidiaries' results of
operations and financial position.

Although
Entergy and its subsidiaries devote a considerable effort to these risk
management strategies, they cannot eliminate all the risks associated with these
activities. As a result of these and other factors, Entergy and its
subsidiaries cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management
decisions may have on their business, results of operations or financial
position.

Entergy
has guaranteed or indemnified the performance of a portion of the obligations
relating to hedging and risk management activities. Reductions in Entergy's or
its subsidiaries' credit quality or changes in the market prices of energy
commodities could increase the cash or Letter of Credit quality collateral
required to be posted in connection with hedging and risk management activities,
which could materially affect Entergy's or its subsidiaries' liquidity and
financial position.

The Utility operating companies and
Entergy
'
s Non-Utility
Nuclear business are exposed to the risk that counterparties may not meet their
obligations, which may materially adversely affect the Utility operating
companies' and Non-Utility Nuclear's business.

Entergy's
Utility operating companies' and its Non-Utility Nuclear subsidiaries' hedging
and risk management activities are exposed to the risk that counterparties that
owe Entergy and its subsidiaries money, energy, or other commodities will not
perform their obligations. Currently, some hedging agreements contain provisions
that require the counterparties to provide credit support to secure their
obligations to Entergy or its subsidiaries. If the counterparties to these
arrangements fail to perform, Entergy or its subsidiaries might be forced to act
on the credit support provided and acquire alternative hedging arrangements or
draw on the credit support provided by the counterparties, which credit support
may not always be adequate to cover the related obligations. In such event,
Entergy and its subsidiaries might incur losses in addition to amounts, if any,
already paid to the counterparties. In addition, the credit commitments of
Entergy's lenders under its bank facilities may not be honored for a variety of
reasons, including unexpected periods of financial distress affecting such
lenders, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of its liquidity
sources.

New
legislation may subject the Utility operating companies and Entergy’s
Non-Utility Nuclear business to governmental regulation of energy derivatives
used in hedging and risk management transactions, which may materially
adversely affect the Utility operating companies’ and Entergy’s 
Non-Utility Nuclear business.

 

New
legislation may subject the Utility operating companies and Entergy’s
Non-Utility Nuclear business to governmental regulation relating to certain
hedging transactions. For example, Congress is considering legislation to impose
restrictions on the use of over-the-counter derivatives, including energy
derivatives. The United States House of Representatives passed its version of
the legislation (H.R. 4173, Title III) on December 11, 2009. If such legislation
becomes law, Entergy’s subsidiaries could potentially face higher costs to hedge
their risks, fewer potential counterparties still active in the newly regulated
marketplace, and increased liquidity requirements. Under the proposed
legislation, hedging and other risk management transactions conducted by the
Utility operating companies and Entergy’s Non-Utility Nuclear business would be
regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. If such legislation were
to become law without the addition of appropriate exemptions for energy
transactions and energy markets, then Entergy believes that the forward hedging
strategies and other risk management activities of its subsidiaries could either
be curtailed or become significantly more expensive. A substantial number of
these hedge transactions currently used by Entergy’s subsidiaries rely upon
bilaterally negotiated contracts that are unsecured or utilize corporate
guarantees or fixed credit support

 

 

254

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

structures.
If Entergy’s subsidiaries were to be required to “clear” their transactions, or
to post margin based on the mark-to-market forward price of power (as margin is
calculated by Commodity Futures Trading Commission-regulated exchanges and
clearing entities), then these subsidiaries would need to arrange a substantial
amount of additional liquidity in order to maintain their current level of
hedging and risk management activities.

Market
performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plan assets,
which then could require significant additional funding.

The
performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in
trust under Entergy's pension and postretirement benefit plans. A decline in the
market value of the assets may increase the funding requirements relating to
Entergy's benefit plan liabilities. The recent significant volatility in the
capital markets has affected the market value of these assets, which may affect
Entergy's planned levels of contributions in the future. Additionally, changes
in interest rates affect the liabilities under Entergy's pension and
postretirement benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities
increase, potentially requiring additional funding. The funding requirements of
the obligations related to the pension benefit plans can also increase as a
result of changes in retirement rates, life expectancy assumptions, or Federal
regulations. Guidance pursuant to the Pension Protection Act of 2006
rules, effective for the 2008 plan year and beyond, continues to evolve, be
interpreted through technical corrections bills and discussed within the
industry and by congressional lawmakers. Any changes to the Pension
Protection Act of 2006 as a result of these discussions and efforts may affect
the level of Entergy's pension contributions in the future. For further
information regarding Entergy's pension and other postretirement benefit plans,
reference is made to the "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
 –
Qualified Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
" section of
Management's Financial Discussion and Analysis for Entergy and each of its
Registrant Subsidiaries and Note 11 to the consolidated financial
statements.

The
litigation environment in the states in which certain Entergy subsidiaries
operate poses a significant risk to those businesses.

Entergy
and its subsidiaries are involved in the ordinary course of business in a number
of lawsuits involving employment, commercial, asbestos, hazardous material and
ratepayer matters, and injuries and damages issues, among other matters. States
in which the Utility operating companies operate, in particular Louisiana,
Mississippi and Texas, have proven to be unusually litigious
environments. Judges and juries in these states have demonstrated a
willingness to grant large verdicts, including punitive damages, to plaintiffs
in personal injury, property damage, and business tort cases. Entergy
and its subsidiaries use legal and appropriate means to contest litigation
threatened or filed against them, but the litigation environment in these states
poses a significant business risk.

Terrorist attacks, future war or risk
of war may adversely affect Entergy's results of operations.

 

As power generators, Entergy and its
subsidiaries face heightened risk of an act of terrorism, either as a direct act
against one of Entergy's generation facilities or an act against the
transmission and distribution infrastructure used to transport power which
affects its ability to operate. If such an attack were to occur, Entergy's
business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially
adversely affected. The risk of terrorist attacks also may cause
Entergy to incur increased capital and operating costs to implement increased
security for its nuclear power plants, such as additional physical facility
security and additional security personnel.

Changes in taxation as well as the
inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions
could negatively impact Entergy
'
s, the Utility operating companies'
and System Energy's results of operations, financial condition and
liquidity.

Entergy
and its subsidiaries make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of
various financial transactions and results of operations to estimate their
obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include
income, franchise, real estate, sales and use and employment-related
taxes. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse
outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken. Entergy and
its subsidiaries also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including
those in the form of carryforwards for which the

 

 

255

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

benefits
have already been reflected in the financial statements. Changes in
Federal, state, or local tax laws, adverse tax audit results or adverse tax
rulings on positions taken by Entergy and its subsidiaries could negatively
affect Entergy's, the Utility operating companies' and System Energy's results
of operations, financial condition and liquidity. For further
information regarding Entergy's accounting for tax obligations, reference is
made to Note 3 to the financial statements.

(Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans)

The effect of higher purchased gas
cost charges to customers may adversely affect Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's
and Entergy New Orleans
'

results of operations and liquidity.

Gas rates
charged to customers are comprised primarily of purchased gas cost charges,
which provide no return or profit to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana or Entergy
New Orleans, and distribution charges, which provide a return or profit to the
utility. Distribution charges are affected by the amount of gas sold
to customers. Purchased gas cost charges, which comprise most of a customer's
bill and may be adjusted quarterly, represent gas commodity costs that Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana or Entergy New Orleans recovers from its
customers. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's or Entergy New Orleans'
cash flows can be affected by differences between the time period when gas is
purchased and the time when ultimate recovery from customers
occurs. When purchased gas cost charges increase substantially
reflecting higher gas procurement costs incurred by Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana or Entergy New Orleans, customer usage may decrease, especially in
weaker economic times, resulting in lower distribution charges for Entergy Gulf
States Louisiana or Entergy New Orleans.

(System
Energy)

System
Energy owns and operates a single nuclear generating facility, and it is
dependent on affiliated companies for all of its revenues.

System
Energy's operating revenues are derived from the allocation of the capacity,
energy, and related costs associated with its 90% ownership/leasehold interest
in Grand Gulf. Charges under the Unit Power Sales Agreement are paid
by the Utility operating companies as consideration for their respective
entitlements to receive capacity and energy and are payable on a full
cost-of-service basis only so long as Grand Gulf remains in commercial
operation. The useful economic life of Grand Gulf is finite and is
limited by the terms of its operating license, which is currently due to expire
on November 1, 2024. System Energy's financial condition depends both
on the receipt of payments from the Utility operating companies under the Unit
Power Sales Agreement and on the continued commercial operation of Grand
Gulf. For information regarding the Unit Power Sales Agreement and
certain other agreements relating to the Entergy System companies' support of
System Energy (including the Capital Funds Agreement), see the "Grand Gulf -
Related Agreements" section of Note 8 to the financial statements and the
"Utility - System Energy and Related Agreements" section of Part I Item
1.

(Entergy
Corporation)

Entergy Corporation
'
s holding company structure could
limit its ability to pay dividends.

 

Entergy
Corporation is a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of
its subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of its operations are conducted by its
subsidiaries. Entergy Corporation's ability to pay dividends on its
common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends or distributions by its
subsidiaries. The payments of dividends or distributions to Entergy Corporation
by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows
and other items affecting retained earnings. Provisions in the
organizational documents, indentures for debt issuances and other agreements of
certain of Entergy Corporation's subsidiaries restrict the payment of cash
dividends to Entergy Corporation. For further information regarding
dividend or distribution restrictions to Entergy Corporation, reference is made
to the "
COMMON EQUITY –

Retained
Earnings and Dividend Restrictions
" section of Note 7 to the financial
statements.

 

Entergy
Corporation's proposed spin-off of its Non-Utility Nuclear business is subject
to risks inherent to a large-scale transaction subject to regulatory approvals
and the completion of complex financings.

 

256

 

Part I
Item 1A & 1B

Entergy
Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy

The proposed spin-off of Entergy
Corporation's Non-Utility Nuclear business is subject to multiple risks and
uncertainties, including the risk that the spin-off will not be consummated, the
risk that the financing transactions contemplated as part of the spin-off cannot
be consummated on terms and conditions acceptable to Entergy Corporation or the
risk that state and Federal regulatory jurisdictions may impose conditions to
the transaction not acceptable to Entergy Corporation. If the
spin-off is consummated, it is possible that Entergy Corporation or Enexus
Energy Corporation, the wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy whose shares will be
distributed in the spin-off , may not achieve the full strategic and financial
benefits that they expect will result from the transaction or that such benefits
may be delayed or not occur due to unforeseen changes in market and economic
conditions or other events. As a result, the aggregate market price
of the common stock of Entergy Corporation and Enexus Energy Corporation as
separate companies could be less than the market price of Entergy Corporation's
common stock if the spin-off had not occurred.

 

257

 

ENTERGY
ARKANSAS, INC.

MANAGEMENT'S
FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Results of
Operations

Net
Income

2009 Compared to
2008

Net income increased $19.7 million
primarily due to lower other operation and maintenance expenses and a lower
effective income tax rate, partially offset by lower net revenue, higher
depreciation and amortization expenses, higher nuclear refueling outage
expenses, and higher interest expense.

2008 Compared to
2007

Net income decreased $92.0 million
primarily due to higher other operation and maintenance expenses, higher
depreciation and amortization expenses, and a higher effective income tax rate,
partially offset by higher net revenue. The higher other operation
and maintenance expenses resulted primarily from the write-off of approximately
$70.8 million of costs as a result of the December 2008 Arkansas Court of
Appeals decision in Entergy Arkansas' 2006 base rate case. The 2006
base rate case is discussed in more detail in Note 2 to the financial
statements.

Net
Revenue

2009 Compared to
2008

Net revenue consists of operating
revenues net of: 1) fuel, fuel-related expenses, and gas purchased for resale,
2) purchased power expenses, and 3) other regulatory charges
(credits). Following is an analysis of the change in net revenue
comparing 2009 to 2008.

 
 

 
 

Amount

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

 
 

 
 

 
 

2008
 net revenue

 
 

$1,117.9
 

Provision
 for regulatory proceedings

 
 

(26.1)

Volume/weather

 
 

(24.4)

Retail
 electric price

 
 

26.5 

Other

 
 

8.5 

2009
 net revenue

 
 

$1,102.4
 

The provision for regulatory
proceedings variance is primarily due to provisions recorded in
2009. See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of
regulatory proceedings affecting Entergy Arkansas.

The volume/weather variance is
primarily due to the effect of less favorable weather and an 11.6% volume
decrease in industrial sales primarily in the mid to small customer
class.

The retail electric price variance is
primarily due to the recovery of 2008 extraordinary storm costs as approved by
the APSC, effective January 2009, which is discussed in Note 2 to the financial
statements. Also contributing to the increase are increases in the
capacity acquisition rider related to the Ouachita acquisition. The
net income effect of the Ouachita cost recovery is limited to a portion
representing an allowed return on equity with the remainder offset by Ouachita
plant costs in other operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation expenses,
and taxes other than income taxes.

 

258

 

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Gross
operating revenues and fuel and purchased power expenses

Gross operating revenues decreased
primarily due to:

· 

a
 decrease of $119.9 million in gross wholesale revenue due to a decrease in
 the average price of energy available for resale
 sales;

· 

a
 decrease of $63.2 million in fuel cost recovery revenues due to a change
 in the energy cost recovery rider effective April 2009 and decreased
 usage; and

· 

a
 decrease of $24.4 million related to volume/weather, as discussed
 above.

 The
decrease was offset by an increase of $90.7 million in rider
revenues.

Fuel and purchased power expenses
decreased primarily due to a decrease in the average market price of purchased
power.

2008 Compared to
2007

Net revenue consists of operating
revenues net of: 1) fuel, fuel-related expenses, and gas purchased for resale,
2) purchased power expenses, and 3) other regulatory
credits. Following is an analysis of the change in net revenue
comparing 2008 to 2007.

 
 

 
 

Amount

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

 
 

 
 

 
 

2007
 net revenue

 
 

$1,110.6
 

Rider
 revenue

 
 

13.6 

Purchased
 power capacity

 
 

4.8 

Volume/weather

 
 

(14.6)

Other

 
 

3.5 

2008
 net revenue

 
 

$1,117.9
 

The rider revenue variance is primarily
due to an Energy Efficiency rider which became effective in November
2007. The establishment of the rider results in an increase in rider
revenue and a corresponding increase in other operation and maintenance expense
with no effect on net income. Also contributing to the variance was
an increase in franchise tax rider revenue as a result of higher retail
revenues. The corresponding increase is in taxes other than income
taxes, resulting in no effect on net income.

The purchased power capacity variance
is primarily due to lower reserve equalization expenses.

The volume/weather variance is
primarily due to the effect of less favorable weather on residential and
commercial sales during the billed and unbilled sales periods compared to 2007
and a 2.9% volume decrease in industrial sales, primarily in the wood industry
and the small customer class. Billed electricity usage decreased 333
GWh in all sectors. See "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
" below and Note 1 to the financial statements for
further discussion of the accounting for unbilled revenues.

Gross
operating revenues and fuel and purchased power expenses

Gross operating revenues increased
primarily due to:

· 

an
 increase of $114 million in gross wholesale revenue due to an increase in
 the average price of energy available for resale sales and an increase in
 sales to affiliated customers;

· 

an
 increase of $106.1 million in production cost allocation rider revenues
 which became effective in July 2007 as a result of the System Agreement
 proceedings. As a result of the System Agreement proceedings,
 Entergy Arkansas also has a corresponding increase in deferred fuel
 expense for payments to other Entergy system companies such that there is
 no effect on net income. Entergy Arkansas makes payments over a
 seven-month period but collections from customers occur over a
 twelve-month period. The production cost allocation rider is
 discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements and the System Agreement
 proceedings are referenced below under "
Federal
 Regulation
"; and

 

 

 

259

 

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

· 

an
 increase of $58.9 million in fuel cost recovery revenues due to changes in
 the energy cost recovery rider effective April 2008 and September 2008,
 partially offset by decreased usage. The energy cost recovery
 rider filings are discussed in Note 2 to the financial
 statements.

The
increase was partially offset by a decrease of $14.6 million related to
volume/weather, as discussed above.

Fuel and purchased power expenses
increased primarily due to an increase of $106.1 million in deferred System
Agreement payments, as discussed above and an increase in the average market
price of purchased power.

Other
Income Statement Variances

2009 Compared to
2008

Nuclear refueling outage expenses
increased primarily due to the amortization of higher expenses associated with
the planned maintenance and refueling outage at ANO 1 which ended in December
2008 and the planned maintenance and refueling outage at ANO 2 which ended in
September 2009.

Other
operation and maintenance expenses decreased primarily due to:

· 

the
 write off in the fourth quarter 2008 of $52 million of costs previously
 accumulated in Entergy Arkansas' storm reserve and $16 million of removal
 costs associated with the termination of a lease, both in connection with
 the December 2008 Arkansas Court of Appeals decision in Entergy Arkansas's
 
2006 
base rate
 case. The 
2006
 
base rate case is discussed in more detail in Note 2 to the
 financial statements;

· 

the
 capitalization in 2009 of $12.5 million of Ouachita service charges
 previously expensed in 2008;

· 

prior
 year storm damage charges as a result of several storms hitting Entergy
 Arkansas' service territory in 2008, including Hurricane Gustav and
 Hurricane Ike in the third quarter 2008. Entergy Arkansas
 discontinued regulatory storm reserve accounting beginning July 2007 as a
 result of the APSC order issued in Entergy Arkansas' rate
 case. As a result, non-capital storm expenses of $41 million
 were charged to other operation and maintenance expenses. In
 December 2008, $19.4 million of these storm expenses were deferred per an
 APSC order and were recovered through revenues in 2009;
 and

· 

a
 decrease of $10.8 million in payroll-related and benefits
 costs.

The
decrease was partially offset by the following:

· 

an
 increase of $17.9 million due to higher fossil costs primarily due to a
 full year of Ouachita costs in 2009 and higher fossil plant outage costs
 in 2009;

· 

an
 increase of $14.4 million due to the reinstatement of storm reserve
 accounting effective January 2009;

· 

an
 increase of $9.6 million in nuclear expenses primarily due to increased
 nuclear labor and contract costs;

· 

an
 increase in legal expenses as a result of a reimbursement in April 2008 of
 $7 million of costs in connection with a litigation settlement;
 and

· 

an
 increase of $4.0 million in customer service costs primarily as a result
 of write-offs of uncollectible customer
 accounts.

Depreciation
and amortization expenses increased primarily due to an increase in plant in
service.

Interest expense increased primarily
due to an increase in long-term debt outstanding as a result of the issuance of
$300 million of 5.40% Series first mortgage bonds in July 2008.

 

 

260

 

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

2008 Compared to
2007

Other operation and maintenance
expenses increased primarily due to:

· 

the
 write-off in the fourth quarter 2008 of $52 million of costs previously
 accumulated in Entergy Arkansas's storm reserve and $16 million of removal
 costs associated with the termination of a lease, both in connection with
 the December 2008 Arkansas Court of Appeals decision in Entergy
 Arkansas's 
2006 
base
 rate case. The 2006 base rate case is discussed in more detail
 in Note 2 to the financial
statements;

· 

an
 increase of $16.8 million in fossil plant expenses due to the Ouachita
 plant acquisition in 2008; and

· 

an
 increase of $15 million in storm damage charges as a result of several
 storms hitting Entergy Arkansas' service territory in 2008, including
 Hurricane Gustav and Hurricane Ike in the third quarter
 2008. Entergy Arkansas discontinued regulatory storm reserve
 accounting beginning July 2007 as a result of the APSC order issued in
 Entergy Arkansas' 2006 base rate case. As a result, non-capital
 storm expenses of $41 million were charged to other operation and
 maintenance expenses. In December 2008, $19.4 million of these
 storm expenses were deferred per an APSC order and will be recovered
 through revenues in 2009. See Note 2 for discussion of the APSC
 order.

The
increase was partially offset by:

· 

a
 decrease of $8.9 million in payroll-related and benefits
 costs;

· 

a
 decrease of $8.3 million related to expenses in connection with the
 nuclear fleet alignment in 2007, which is discussed in more detail in Note
 13 to the financial statements; and

· 

a
 reimbursement of $7 million of costs in connection with a litigation
 settlement.

Taxes other than income taxes increased
primarily due to an increase in local franchise taxes as a result of higher
residential and commercial revenue and an increase in ad valorem taxes due to a
higher millage rate and a higher 2008 assessment.

Depreciation and amortization expenses
increased primarily due to an increase in plant in service.

Income
Taxes

The effective income tax rates for
2009, 2008, and 2007 were 55.0%, 67.2%, and 38.1%, respectively. See
Note 3 to the financial statements for a reconciliation of the federal statutory
rate of 35.0% to the effective income tax rate.

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Cash
Flow

Cash flows for the years ended December
31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 were as follows:

 
 

 
 

 
 

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

2007

 
 

 
 

 
 

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 
 

$39,568 

 
 

$212 

 
 

$34,815 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 flow provided by (used in):

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Operating
 activities

 
 

384,192 

 
 

460,251 

 
 

366,118 

 
 

Investing
 activities

 
 

(281,512)

 
 

(608,501)

 
 

(290,130)

 
 

Financing
 activities

 
 

(56,015)

 
 

187,606 

 
 

(110,591)

 
 

 Net
 increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 
 

46,665 

 
 

39,356 

 
 

(34,603)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at end of period

 
 

$86,233 

 
 

$39,568 

 
 

$212 

 

 

261

 

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Operating
Activities

Cash flow from operations decreased
$76.1 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to income tax payments of
$1.4 million in 2009 compared to income tax refunds of $57.9 million in 2008 and
an increase in storm spending in 2009, partially offset by a decrease of $14.1
million in pension contributions.

Cash flow from operations increased
$94.1 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to income tax refunds of
$57.9 million in 2008 compared to income tax payments of $21.9 million in 2007
and an increase in recovery of fuel costs, partially offset by storm restoration
spending.

Investing
Activities

Net cash flow used in investing
activities decreased $327.0 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to
the purchase of the Ouachita plant for $210 million in September 2008 and the
sale of one-third of the plant for $75 million in 2009, decreases in nuclear
construction expenditures resulting from various nuclear projects that occurred
in 2008, and decreases in distribution and transmission construction
expenditures resulting from Hurricane Gustav and Hurricane Ike in
2008. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in
distribution construction expenditures as a result of an ice storm hitting
Entergy Arkansas' service territory in the first quarter 2009.

Net cash flow used in investing
activities increased $318.4 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due
to:

· 

the
 purchase of the Ouachita plant for $210 million in September
 2008. See Note 15 to the financial statements for more details
 on the acquisition;

· 

an
 increase in nuclear construction expenditures resulting from various
 nuclear projects in 2008;

· 

an
 increase in distribution and transmission construction expenditures in
 2008 due to Hurricane Gustav and Hurricane Ike, as well as several storms
 hitting Entergy Arkansas' service territory in the first quarter of 2008;
 and

· 

money
 pool activity.

Increases in Entergy Arkansas'
receivable from the money pool are a use of cash flow, and Entergy Arkansas'
receivable from the money pool increased by $16 million in 2008 compared to
decreasing by $14.3 million in 2007. The money pool is an
inter-company borrowing arrangement designed to reduce Entergy's subsidiaries'
need for external short-term borrowings.

Financing
Activities

Entergy Arkansas' financing activities
used $56.0 million of cash in 2009 compared to providing $187.6 million in 2008
primarily due to:

· 

issuance
 of $300 million of 5.4% Series first mortgage bonds in July
 2008;

· 

an
 increase of $23.4 million in common stock dividends paid in 2009;
 and

· 

money
 pool activity.

Decreases in Entergy Arkansas' payable
to the money pool are a use of cash flow, and Entergy Arkansas' payable to the
money pool decreased by $77.9 million in 2008.

Entergy Arkansas' financing activities
provided $187.6 million of cash in 2008 compared to using $110.6 million in 2007
primarily due to the issuance of $300 million of 5.40% Series First Mortgage
Bonds in July 2008 and a decrease of $156.7 million in common stock dividends
paid in 2008, partially offset by money pool activity.

Decreases in Entergy Arkansas' payable
to the money pool are a use of cash flow, and Entergy Arkansas' payable to the
money pool decreased by $77.9 million in 2008 compared to increasing by $77.9
million in 2007.

See Note 5 to the financial statements
for details of long-term debt.

 

 

262

 

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Capital
Structure

Entergy
Arkansas' capitalization is balanced between equity and debt, as shown in the
following table.

 
 

 
 

December
 31,

 2009

 
 

December
 31,

2008

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Net
 debt to net capital

 
 

52.8%

 
 

52.9%

Effect
 of subtracting cash from debt

 
 

1.2%

 
 

0.6%

Debt
 to capital

 
 

54.0%

 
 

53.5%

Net debt
consists of debt less cash and cash equivalents. Debt consists of
notes payable, capital lease obligations, and long-term debt, including the
currently maturing portion. Capital consists of debt and
shareholders' equity. Net capital consists of capital less cash and
cash equivalents. Entergy Arkansas uses the net debt to net capital
ratio in analyzing its financial condition and believes it provides useful
information to its investors and creditors in evaluating Entergy Arkansas'
financial condition.

Uses
of Capital

Entergy Arkansas requires capital
resources for:

· 

construction
 and other capital investments;

·
 

debt
 and preferred stock maturities;

· 

working
 capital purposes, including the financing of fuel and purchased power
 costs; and

· 

dividend
 and interest payments.

Following are the amounts of Entergy
Arkansas' planned construction and other capital investments, existing debt and
lease obligations (includes estimated interest payments), and other purchase
obligations:

 
 

 
 

2010

 
 

2011-2012

 
 

2013-2014

 
 

after
 2014

 
 

Total

 
 

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

Planned
 construction and

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 capital
 investment (1)

 
 

$399

 
 

$1,001

 
 

N/A

 
 

N/A

 
 

$1,400

 
 

Long-term
 debt (2)

 
 

$178

 
 

$152

 
 

$429

 
 

$1,841

 
 

$2,600

 
 

Capital
 lease payments

 
 

$-

 
 

$-

 
 

$-

 
 

$1

 
 

$1

 
 

Operating
 leases

 
 

$21

 
 

$40 

 
 

$33

 
 

$27

 
 

$121

 
 

Purchase
 obligations (3)

 
 

$662

 
 

$1,017

 
 

$948

 
 

$2,177

 
 

$4,804

 
 

Nuclear
 fuel lease obligations (4)

 
 

$73

 
 

$102

 
 

N/A

 
 

N/A

 
 

$175

 
 

(1)

Includes
 approximately $193 million annually for maintenance capital, which is
 planned spending on routine capital projects that are necessary to support
 reliability of service, equipment or systems and to support normal
 customer growth.

(2)

Includes
 estimated interest payments. Long-term debt is discussed in
 Note 5 to the financial statements.

(3)

Purchase
 obligations represent the minimum purchase obligation or cancellation
 charge for contractual obligations to purchase goods or
 services. For Entergy Arkansas, almost all of the total
 consists of unconditional fuel and purchased power obligations, including
 its obligations under the Unit Power Sales Agreement, which is discussed
 in Note 8 to the financial statements.

(4)

It
 is expected that additional financing under the leases will be arranged as
 needed to acquire additional fuel, to pay interest, and to pay maturing
 debt. If such additional financing cannot be arranged, however,
 Entergy Arkansas must repurchase sufficient nuclear fuel to allow the
 lessor to meet its obligations.

In
addition, Entergy Arkansas currently expects to contribute approximately $73.1
million to its pension plans and approximately $21.6 million to other
postretirement plans in 2010; although the required pension contributions will
not be known with more certainty until the January 1, 2010 valuations are
completed by April 1, 2010. Also, guidance pursuant to the Pension
Protection Act of 2006 rules, effective for the 2008 plan year and beyond,
continues to evolve, be interpreted through technical corrections bills, and
discussed within the

 

 

263

 

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

industry
and by congressional lawmakers. Any changes to the Pension Protection
Act as a result of these discussions and efforts may affect the level of Entergy
Arkansas’ pension contributions in the future.

Also in addition to the contractual
obligations, Entergy Arkansas has $178.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits
and interest net of unused tax attributes for which the timing of payments
beyond 12 months cannot be reasonably estimated due to uncertainties in the
timing of effective settlement of tax positions. See Note 3 to the
financial statements for additional information regarding unrecognized tax
benefits.

The
planned capital investment estimate for Entergy Arkansas also reflects capital
required to support existing business and customer growth. The above
amounts include approximately $420 million for installation of scrubbers and low
NOx burners at Entergy Arkansas' White Bluff coal plant, which is discussed
below. Entergy Arkansas continues to review potential environmental
spending needs and financing alternatives for any such spending, and future
spending estimates could change based on the results of this continuing
analysis.

White Bluff Coal Plant
Project

In June 2005 the EPA issued final Best
Available Retrofit Control Technology (BART) regulations that could potentially
result in a requirement to install SO
2
 pollution
control technology on certain of Entergy's coal and oil generation
units. The rule leaves certain BART determinations to the
states. The Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality (ADEQ)
prepared a State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Arkansas facilities to implement
its obligations under the Clean Air Visibility Rule. The ADEQ
determined that Entergy Arkansas' White Bluff power plant affects a Class I Area
visibility and will be subject to the EPA's presumptive BART requirements to
install scrubbers and low NOx burners
. 
Under current
regulations, the scrubbers would have to be operational by October
2013. Entergy filed a petition in December 2009 with the Arkansas
Pollution Control and Ecology Commission requesting a variance from this
deadline, however, because the EPA has not approved Arkansas' Regional Haze SIP
and the EPA has recently expressed concerns about Arkansas' Regional Haze SIP
and questioned the appropriateness of issuing an air permit prior to that
approval. Entergy Arkansas' petition requests that, consistent with
federal law, the compliance deadline be changed to as expeditiously as
practicable, but in no event later than five years after EPA approval of the
Arkansas Regional Haze SIP. The Arkansas Pollution Control and
Ecology (PC&E) Commission adopted a procedural schedule that includes a
public hearing and a comment period ending in March 2010 with the expectation
that the variance could be considered at the Commission's March 26, 2010
meeting. The timeline for EPA action on the Arkansas Regional Haze
SIP is uncertain at this time.

In March 2009, Entergy Arkansas made a
filing with the APSC seeking a declaratory order that the White Bluff project is
in the public interest. In May 2009 the APSC Staff filed a motion
requesting that the APSC require Entergy Arkansas to file testimony on several
issues. In December 2009, in response to the EPA concerns regarding
Arkansas' Regional Haze SIP, the APSC suspended the procedural schedule in the
proceeding.

Currently, the White Bluff project is
suspended, but the latest conceptual cost estimate indicated that Entergy
Arkansas' share of the project could cost approximately $465
million. The plant would continue to operate during construction,
although an outage would be necessary to complete the tie in of the
scrubbers. Entergy continues to review potential environmental
spending needs and financing alternatives for any such spending, and future
spending estimates could change based on the results of this continuing
analysis.

Ouachita Power
Plant

Entergy Arkansas filed with the APSC in
September 2007 for its approval of the Ouachita plant acquisition, including
full cost recovery. In June 2008 the APSC approved Entergy Arkansas'
acquisition of the Ouachita plant and approved recovery of the acquisition and
ownership costs through a rate rider. The APSC also approved the
planned sale of one-third of the capacity and energy to Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana. Entergy Arkansas purchased the Ouachita plant in September
2008.

 

 

264

 

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

In August
2008, the LPSC issued an order approving an uncontested settlement between
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and the LPSC Staff authorizing Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana's purchase, under a life-of-unit agreement, of one-third of the
capacity and energy from the 789 MW Ouachita power plant. The LPSC's
approval was subject to certain conditions, including a study to determine the
costs and benefits of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana exercising an option to
purchase one-third of the plant (Unit 3) from Entergy Arkansas. In
April 2009, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana made a filing with the LPSC seeking
approval of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana exercising its option to convert its
purchased power agreement into the ownership interest in Unit 3 and a one-third
interest in the Ouachita common facilities. In September 2009 the
LPSC, pursuant to an uncontested settlement, approved the acquisition and a cost
recovery mechanism. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana purchased Unit 3
and a one-third interest in the Ouachita common facilities for $75 million in
November 2009.

Entergy's
Utility supply plan initiative will continue to seek to transform its generation
portfolio with new or repowered generation resources. Opportunities
resulting from the supply plan initiative, including new projects or the
exploration of alternative financing sources, could result in increases or
decreases in the capital expenditure estimates given above. The
estimated capital expenditures are subject to periodic review and modification
and may vary based on the ongoing effects of regulatory constraints, market
volatility, economic trends, environmental compliance, and the ability to access
capital. Management provides more information on long-term debt and
preferred stock maturities in Notes 5 and 6 to the financial
statements.

As a wholly-owned subsidiary, Entergy
Arkansas pays dividends to Entergy Corporation from its earnings at a percentage
determined monthly. Entergy Arkansas' long-term debt indentures
restrict the amount of retained earnings available for the payment of cash
dividends or other distributions on its common and preferred
stock. As of December 31, 2009, Entergy Arkansas had restricted
retained earnings unavailable for distribution to Entergy Corporation of $461.6
million.

Sources
of Capital

Entergy Arkansas' sources to meet its
capital requirements include:

· 

internally
 generated funds;

· 

cash
 on hand;

· 

debt
 or preferred stock issuances; and

·
 

bank
 financing under new or existing
facilities.

Entergy Arkansas may refinance or
redeem debt and preferred stock prior to maturity, to the extent market
conditions and interest and dividend rates are favorable.

All debt and common and preferred stock
issuances by Entergy Arkansas require prior regulatory
approval. Preferred stock and debt issuances are also subject to
issuance tests set forth in Entergy Arkansas' corporate charters, bond
indentures, and other agreements. Entergy Arkansas has sufficient
capacity under these tests to meet its foreseeable capital needs.

In April
2009, Entergy Arkansas renewed its credit facility through April 2010 in the
amount of $88 million. There were no outstanding borrowings under the
Entergy Arkansas credit facility as of December 31, 2009.

Entergy Arkansas' receivables from or
(payables to) the money pool were as follows as of December 31 for each of the
following years:

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

2007

 
 

2006

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$28,859

 
 

$15,991

 
 

($77,882)

 
 

$16,109

In May
2007, $1.8 million of Entergy Arkansas' receivable from the money pool was
replaced by a note receivable from Entergy New Orleans. See Note 4 to
the financial statements for a description of the money pool.

 

 

265

 

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Entergy Arkansas has obtained
short-term borrowing authorization from the FERC under which it may borrow
through October 2011, up to the aggregate amount, at any one time outstanding,
of $250 million. See Note 4 to the financial statements for further
discussion of Entergy Arkansas' short-term borrowing limits. Entergy
Arkansas has also obtained an order from the APSC authorizing long-term
securities issuances through December 2012.

State and Local Rate
Regulation

Retail
Rates

2006 Base Rate
Filing

In August 2006, Entergy Arkansas filed
with the APSC a request for a change in base rates. Entergy Arkansas
requested a general base rate increase (using an ROE of 11.25%), which it
subsequently adjusted to a request for a $106.5 million annual
increase. In June 2007, after hearings on the filing, the APSC
ordered Entergy Arkansas to reduce its annual rates by $5 million, and set a
return on common equity of 9.9% with a hypothetical common equity level lower
than Entergy Arkansas' actual capital structure. For the purpose of
setting rates, the APSC disallowed a portion of costs associated with incentive
compensation based on financial measures and all costs associated with Entergy's
stock-based compensation plans. In addition, under the terms of the
APSC's decision, the order eliminated storm reserve accounting and set an amount
of $14.4 million in base rates to address storm restoration costs, regardless of
the actual annual amount of future restoration costs. The APSC's June
2007 decision left Entergy Arkansas with no mechanism to recover
$52 million of costs previously accumulated in Entergy Arkansas' storm
reserve and $18 million of removal costs associated with the termination of a
lease.

The APSC denied Entergy Arkansas'
request for rehearing of its June 2007 decision, and the base rate change was
implemented August 29, 2007, effective for bills rendered after June 15,
2007. In December 2008 the Arkansas Court of Appeals upheld almost
all aspects of the APSC decision. After considering the progress of
the proceeding in light of the decision of the Court of Appeals, Entergy
Arkansas recorded in the fourth quarter 2008 an approximately $70 million charge
to earnings, on both a pre- and after-tax basis because these are primarily
flow-through items, to recognize that the regulatory assets associated with the
storm reserve costs, lease termination removal costs, and stock-based
compensation are no longer probable of recovery. In April 2009 the
Arkansas Supreme Court denied Entergy Arkansas' petition for review of the Court
of Appeals decision.

2009 Base Rate
Filing

On September 4, 2009, Entergy Arkansas
filed with the APSC for a general change in rates, charges, and
tariffs. Entergy Arkansas requested a $223.2 million base rate
increase that would become effective in July 2010. The filing
reflects an 11.5% return on common equity using a projected capital structure,
and proposes a formula rate plan mechanism. Proposed formula rate
plan provisions include a +/- 25 basis point bandwidth, with earnings outside
the bandwidth reset to the 11.5% return on common equity midpoint and rates
changing on a prospective basis depending on whether Entergy Arkansas is over or
under-earning. The proposed formula rate plan also includes a
recovery mechanism for APSC-approved costs for additional capacity purchases or
construction/acquisition of new transmission or generating
facilities. Entergy Arkansas is also seeking an increase in its
annual storm damage accrual from $14.4 million to $22.3 million. The
APSC scheduled hearings in the proceeding beginning in May 2010.

Production
Cost Allocation Rider

In its June 2007 decision on Entergy
Arkansas' August 2006 rate filing, the APSC approved a production cost
allocation rider for recovery from customers of the retail portion of the costs
allocated to Entergy Arkansas as a result of the System Agreement
proceedings. These costs cause an increase in Entergy Arkansas'
deferred fuel cost balance, because Entergy Arkansas pays the costs over seven
months but collects them from customers over twelve months. In
December 2007, the APSC issued a subsequent order stating that termination of
the rider would be subject to eighteen months advance notice by the APSC, which
would occur following notice and hearing.

 

 

266

 

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

See Entergy Corporation and
Subsidiaries' "
MANAGEMENT'S
FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - 
System Agreement
Proceedings
" for a discussion of the System Agreement
proceedings.

Energy
Cost Recovery Rider

Entergy Arkansas' retail rates include
an energy cost recovery rider. In December 2007, the APSC issued an
order stating that termination of the energy cost recovery rider would be
subject to eighteen months advance notice by the APSC, which would occur
following notice and hearing.

In March 2009, Entergy Arkansas filed
with the APSC its annual energy cost rate for the period April 2009 through
March 2010. The filed energy cost rate decreased from $0.02456/kWh to
$0.01552/kWh. The decrease was caused by the following: 1) all three
of the nuclear power plants from which Entergy Arkansas obtains power, ANO 1 and
2 and Grand Gulf, had refueling outages in 2008, and the previous energy cost
rate had been adjusted to account for the replacement power costs that would be
incurred while these units were down; 2) Entergy Arkansas had a deferred fuel
cost liability from over-recovered fuel costs at December 31, 2008, as compared
to a deferred fuel cost asset from under-recovered fuel costs at December 31,
2007; offset by 3) an increase in the fuel and purchased power prices included
in the calculation.

In August 2009, as provided for by its
energy cost recovery rider, Entergy Arkansas filed with the APSC an interim
revision to its energy cost rate. The revised energy cost rate is a
decrease from $0.01552/kWh to $0.01206/kWh. The decrease was caused
by a decrease in natural gas and purchased power prices from the levels used in
setting the rate in March 2009. The interim revised energy cost rate
went into effect for the first billing cycle of September 2009. In
its order approving the new rate, the APSC ordered Entergy Arkansas to show
cause why the rate should not be further reduced. In its September
14, 2009 response, Entergy Arkansas explained that it used the same methodology
it had used in previous interim revisions, which is based on estimating what the
rate would be in the next annual update based on the information known at the
time. There has been no further activity in this
proceeding.

APSC
Investigations

In September 2005, Entergy Arkansas
filed with the APSC an interim energy cost rate per the energy cost recovery
rider, which provides for an interim adjustment should the cumulative over- or
under-recovery for the energy period exceed 10 percent of the energy costs for
that period. In early October 2005, the APSC initiated an
investigation into Entergy Arkansas' interim energy cost rate. The
investigation is focused on Entergy Arkansas' 1) gas contracting, portfolio, and
hedging practices; 2) wholesale purchases during the period; 3) management of
the coal inventory at its coal generation plants; and 4) response to the
contractual failure of the railroads to provide coal deliveries. In
March 2006, the APSC extended its investigation to cover the costs included in
Entergy Arkansas' March 2006 annual energy cost rate filing, and a hearing was
held in the APSC energy cost recovery investigation in October
2006.

In January 2007, the APSC issued an
order in its review of the energy cost rate. The APSC found that
Entergy Arkansas failed to maintain an adequate coal inventory level going into
the summer of 2005 and that Entergy Arkansas should be responsible for any
incremental energy costs resulting from two outages caused by employee and
contractor error. The coal plant generation curtailments were caused
by railroad delivery problems and Entergy has since resolved litigation with the
railroad regarding the delivery problems. The APSC staff was directed
to perform an analysis with Entergy Arkansas' assistance to determine the
additional fuel and purchased energy costs associated with these findings and
file the analysis within 60 days of the order. After a final
determination of the costs is made by the APSC, Entergy Arkansas would be
directed to refund that amount with interest to its customers as a credit on the
energy cost recovery rider. Entergy Arkansas requested rehearing of
the order. In March 2007, in order to allow further consideration by
the APSC, the APSC granted Entergy Arkansas' petition for rehearing and for stay
of the APSC order.

In October 2008, Entergy Arkansas filed
a motion to lift the stay and to rescind the APSC's January 2007 order in light
of the arguments advanced in Entergy Arkansas' rehearing petition and because
the value for Entergy Arkansas' customers obtained through the resolved railroad
litigation is significantly greater than the incremental cost of actions
identified by the APSC as imprudent. The APSC staff, the AEEC, and
the Arkansas attorney general support the lifting of the stay but request
additional proceedings. In December 2008, the APSC denied the motion
to lift the stay pending resolution of Entergy Arkansas' rehearing request and
of the unresolved issues in the proceeding. The APSC ordered
the

 

 

 

267

 

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

parties
to submit their unresolved issues list in the pending proceeding, which the
parties have done. In February 2010 the APSC denied Entergy Arkansas'
request for rehearing, and scheduled a hearing for September 2010 to determine
the amount of damages, if any, that should be assessed against Entergy
Arkansas.

The APSC also established a separate
docket to consider the resolved railroad litigation, and in February 2010 it
established a procedural schedule that concludes with testimony through
September 2010. The APSC may set a hearing in a future order, if
necessary.

Storm
Cost Recovery

Entergy Arkansas Storm
Reserve Accounting

The APSC's June 2007 order in Entergy
Arkansas' base rate proceeding eliminated storm reserve accounting for Entergy
Arkansas. In March 2009 a law was enacted in Arkansas that requires
the APSC to permit storm reserve accounting for utilities that request
it. Entergy Arkansas filed its request with the APSC, and has
reinstated storm reserve accounting effective January 1, 2009. A
hearing on Entergy Arkansas' request is scheduled for March 2010.

Entergy Arkansas January
2009 Ice Storm

In January 2009 a severe ice storm
caused significant damage to Entergy Arkansas' transmission and distribution
lines, equipment, poles, and other facilities. On January 30, 2009,
the APSC issued an order inviting and encouraging electric public utilities to
file specific proposals for the recovery of extraordinary storm restoration
expenses associated with the ice storm. On February 16, 2009, Entergy
Arkansas filed a request with the APSC for an accounting order authorizing
deferral of the operating and maintenance cost portion of Entergy Arkansas' ice
storm restoration costs pending their recovery. The APSC issued such
an order in March 2009 subject to certain conditions, including that if Entergy
Arkansas seeks to recover the deferred costs, those costs will be subject to
investigation for whether they are incremental, prudent, and
reasonable. A law was enacted in April 2009 in Arkansas that
authorizes securitization of storm damage restoration costs. On
February 1, 2010, Entergy Arkansas requested a financing order to issue
approximately $127.5 million in storm recovery bonds, which included carrying
costs of $11.7 million and $4.6 million of up-front financing costs to pay for
ice storm restoration because Entergy Arkansas' analysis demonstrates retail
customers will benefit from lower costs using securitization. The
APSC has established a procedural schedule that includes a hearing in April 2010
and states that the APSC will issue its final order by June 15,
2010. Entergy Arkansas' September 2009 general rate filing also
requested recovery of the January 2009 ice storm costs over 10 years if it was
expected that securitization would not produce lower costs for customers, and
Entergy Arkansas will remove this request if the APSC approves
securitization.

Co-Owner-Initiated
Proceeding at the FERC

In October 2004, Arkansas Electric
Cooperative Corporation (AECC) filed a complaint at the FERC against Entergy
Arkansas relating to a contract dispute over the pricing of substitute energy at
the co-owned Independence and White Bluff coal plants. The main issue
in the case related to the consequences under the governing contracts when the
dispatch of the coal units is constrained due to system operating
conditions. A hearing was held on the AECC complaint and an ALJ Initial
Decision was issued in January 2006 in which the ALJ found AECC's claims to be
without merit. On October 25, 2006, the FERC issued its order in the
proceeding. In the order, the FERC reversed the ALJ's
findings. Specifically, the FERC found that the governing contracts
do not recognize the effects of dispatch constraints on the co-owned
units. The FERC explained that for over twenty-three years the course
of conduct of the parties was such that AECC received its full entitlement to
the two coal units, regardless of any reduced output caused by system operating
constraints. Based on the order, Entergy Arkansas is required to
refund to AECC all excess amounts billed to AECC as a result of the system
operating constraints. The FERC denied Entergy Arkansas'
request

 

 

268

 

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

for
rehearing and Entergy Arkansas refunded $22.1 million (including interest) to
AECC in September 2007. Entergy Arkansas had previously recorded a
provision for the estimated effect of this refund. In January 2010
the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting the refund report and ordering
further refunds, noting that the refund period should have included the period
July 1, 2004 through December 23, 2004. Entergy Arkansas had
previously recorded a provision for the estimated effect of this
refund.

Federal
Regulation

System Agreement
Proceedings

See
"
System Agreement
Proceedings
" in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries' Management's
Discussion and Analysis for discussion of the proceeding at the FERC involving
the System Agreement and of other related proceedings.

Transmission

See "
Independent Coordinator of
Transmission
" in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries' Management's
Discussion and Analysis for further discussion.

Utility
Restructuring

In April 1999, the Arkansas legislature
enacted Act 1556, the Arkansas Electric Consumer Choice Act, providing for
competition in the electric utility industry through retail open
access. In December 2001, the APSC recommended to the Arkansas
General Assembly that legislation be enacted during the 2003 legislative session
to either repeal Act 1556 or further delay retail open access until at least
2010. In February 2003, the Arkansas legislature voted to repeal Act
1556 and the repeal was signed into law by the governor.

Nuclear
Matters

Entergy
Arkansas owns and operates, through an affiliate, the ANO 1 and ANO 2 nuclear
power plants. Entergy Arkansas is, therefore, subject to the risks
related to owning and operating nuclear plants. These include risks from the
use, storage, handling and disposal of high-level and low-level radioactive
materials, regulatory requirement changes, including changes resulting from
events at other plants, limitations on the amounts and types of insurance
commercially available for losses in connection with nuclear operations, and
technological and financial uncertainties related to decommissioning nuclear
plants at the end of their licensed lives, including the sufficiency of funds in
decommissioning trusts. In the event of an unanticipated early
shutdown of either ANO 1 or ANO 2, Entergy Arkansas may be required to file with
the APSC a rate mechanism to provide additional funds or credit support to
satisfy regulatory requirements for decommissioning.

The
nuclear industry continues to address susceptibility to stress corrosion
cracking of certain materials associated with components within the reactor
coolant system. The issue is applicable to ANO and is managed in
accordance with industry standard practices and guidelines and includes
in-service examinations, replacement and mitigation strategy. Several
major modifications to the ANO units have been implemented to mitigate the
susceptibility of large bore dissimilar metal welds. In addition, a
replacement reactor vessel head has been fabricated for ANO
2. Routine inspections of the existing ANO 2 reactor vessel head have
identified no significant material degradation issues for that
component. These inspections will continue at planned refueling
outages. Timing for installation of the new reactor vessel head will
be based on the results of future inspection efforts.

Environmental
Risks

Entergy Arkansas' facilities and
operations are subject to regulation by various governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and
hazardous and solid wastes, and other environmental
matters. Management believes that Entergy Arkansas is in substantial
compliance with environmental regulations currently applicable to its facilities
and operations. Because environmental regulations are subject to
change, future compliance costs cannot be precisely
estimated. See
 
"
Uses of Capital
" above for a
discussion of the project to install scrubbers and low NOx burners at Entergy
Arkansas' White Bluff coal plant, which under current environmental regulations
must be operational by September 2013.

 

 

269

 

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Critical Accounting
Estimates

The
preparation of Entergy Arkansas' financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to apply
appropriate accounting policies and to make estimates and judgments that can
have a significant effect on reported financial position, results of operations,
and cash flows. Management has identified the following accounting
policies and estimates as critical because they are based on assumptions and
measurements that involve a high degree of uncertainty, and the potential for
future changes in the assumptions and measurements that could produce estimates
that would have a material effect on the presentation of Entergy Arkansas'
financial position or results of operations.

Nuclear
Decommissioning Costs

See
"
Nuclear Decommissioning
Costs
" in the "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
" section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
Management's Discussion and Analysis for discussion of the estimates inherent in
accounting for nuclear decommissioning costs.

In the
first quarter 2009, Entergy Arkansas recorded a revision to its estimated
decommissioning cost liabilities for ANO 1 and 2 as a result of a revised
decommissioning cost study. The revised estimates resulted in an $8.9
million reduction in its decommissioning liability, along with a corresponding
reduction in the related regulatory asset.

Unbilled
Revenue

As
discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, Entergy Arkansas records an
estimate of the revenues earned for energy delivered since the latest customer
billing. Each month the estimated unbilled revenue amounts are
recorded as revenue and a receivable, and the prior month's estimate is
reversed. The difference between the estimate of the unbilled
receivable at the beginning of the period and the end of the period is the
amount of unbilled revenue recognized during the period. The estimate
recorded is primarily based upon an estimate of customer usage during the
unbilled period and the billed price to customers in that
month. Therefore, revenue recognized may be affected by the estimated
price and usage at the beginning and end of each period, in addition to changes
in certain components of the calculation.

Qualified
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

Entergy
sponsors qualified, defined benefit pension plans which cover substantially all
employees. Additionally, Entergy currently provides postretirement
health care and life insurance benefits for substantially all employees who
reach retirement age while still working for Entergy. Entergy's
reported costs of providing these benefits, as described in Note 11 to the
financial statements, are impacted by numerous factors including the provisions
of the plans, changing employee demographics, and various actuarial
calculations, assumptions, and accounting mechanisms. See the "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
" section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
Management's Discussion and Analysis for further discussion. Because
of the complexity of these calculations, the long-term nature of these
obligations, and the importance of the assumptions utilized, Entergy's estimate
of these costs is a critical accounting estimate.

 

 

270

 

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Cost
Sensitivity

The
following chart reflects the sensitivity of qualified pension cost to changes in
certain actuarial assumptions (dollars in thousands):

 

 

Actuarial
 Assumption

 
 

 

Change
 in

Assumption

 
 

 

Impact
 on 2009

Qualified
 Pension Cost

 
 

Impact
 on Qualified

Projected

Benefit
 Obligation

 
 

 
 

Increase/(Decrease)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Discount
 rate

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$2,199

 
 

$22,989

Rate
 of return on plan assets

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$1,434

 
 

-

Rate
 of increase in compensation

 
 

0.25%

 
 

$1,055

 
 

$4,982

The
following chart reflects the sensitivity of postretirement benefit cost to
changes in certain actuarial assumptions (dollars in thousands):

 

 

Actuarial
 Assumption

 
 

 

Change
 in

Assumption

 
 

 

Impact
 on 2009

Postretirement
 Benefit Cost

 
 

Impact
 on Accumulated

Postretirement
 Benefit

Obligation

 
 

 
 

Increase/(Decrease)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Health
 care cost trend

 
 

0.25%

 
 

$1,069

 
 

$5,659

Discount
 rate

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$594

 
 

$6,327

Each
fluctuation above assumes that the other components of the calculation are held
constant.

Costs and
Funding

Total
qualified pension cost for Entergy Arkansas in 2009 was $19.8
million. Entergy Arkansas anticipates 2010 qualified pension cost to
be approximately $31.7 million. Entergy Arkansas' contributions to
the pension trust were $24.8 million in 2009 and are currently estimated to be
approximately $73.1 million in 2010; although the required pension contributions
will not be known with more certainty until the January 1, 2010 valuations are
completed by April 1, 2010. Also, guidance pursuant to the Pension
Protection Act of 2006 rules, effective for the 2008 plan year and beyond,
continues to evolve, be interpreted through technical corrections bills, and
discussed within the industry and by congressional lawmakers. Any
changes to the Pension Protection Act as a result of these discussions and
efforts may affect the level of Entergy Arkansas’ pension contributions in the
future.

 
 

Total
postretirement health care and life insurance benefit costs for Entergy Arkansas
in 2009 were $21.9 million, including $4.9 million in savings due to the
estimated effect of future Medicare Part D subsidies. Entergy
Arkansas expects 2010 postretirement health care and life insurance benefit
costs to approximate $18.9 million, including $5.3 million in savings due to the
estimated effect of future Medicare Part D subsidies. Entergy
Arkansas expects to contribute approximately $21.6 million to other
postretirement plans in 2010.

New Accounting
Pronouncements

See "
New
Accounting Pronouncements
" section of Entergy Corporation and
Subsidiaries Management's Discussion and Analysis for further
discussion.

 

 

271

 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Little
Rock, Arkansas

We have
audited the accompanying balance sheets of Entergy Arkansas, Inc. (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related statements of
income, retained earnings, and cash flows (pages 273 through 278 and applicable
items in pages 63 through 193) for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2009. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our
opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Entergy Arkansas, Inc. as of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 24, 2010 expressed an
unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

272

 

 

ENTERGY
 ARKANSAS, INC.

 

INCOME
 STATEMENTS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 REVENUES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electric

 

$

2,211,263

 

 

$

2,328,349

 

 

$

2,032,965

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 EXPENSES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Operation
 and Maintenance:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Fuel,
 fuel-related expenses, and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 gas
 purchased for resale

 

 

298,219

 

 

 

283,547

 

 

 

132,830

 

 Purchased
 power

 

 

795,526

 

 

 

953,663

 

 

 

818,549

 

 Nuclear
 refueling outage expenses

 

 

42,148

 

 

 

29,611

 

 

 

28,511

 

 Other
 operation and maintenance

 

 

475,222

 

 

 

524,940

 

 

 

458,042

 

Decommissioning

 

 

34,575

 

 

 

35,083

 

 

 

32,816

 

Taxes
 other than income taxes

 

 

80,829

 

 

 

85,590

 

 

 

78,449

 

Depreciation
 and amortization

 

 

252,742

 

 

 

237,168

 

 

 

228,354

 

Other
 regulatory charges (credits) - net

 

 

15,161

 

 

 

(26,747

)

 

 

(29,001

)

TOTAL

 

 

1,994,422

 

 

 

2,122,855

 

 

 

1,748,550

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 INCOME

 

 

216,841

 

 

 

205,494

 

 

 

284,415

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
 INCOME

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Allowance
 for equity funds used during construction

 

 

5,219

 

 

 

6,259

 

 

 

11,143

 

Interest
 and dividend income

 

 

19,321

 

 

 

21,174

 

 

 

19,116

 

Miscellaneous
 - net

 

 

(3,569

)

 

 

(4,731

)

 

 

(3,263

)

TOTAL

 

 

20,971

 

 

 

22,702

 

 

 

26,996

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INTEREST
 AND OTHER CHARGES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Interest
 on long-term debt

 

 

85,484

 

 

 

79,945

 

 

 

77,348

 

Other
 interest - net

 

 

6,856

 

 

 

7,787

 

 

 

14,392

 

Allowance
 for borrowed funds used during construction

 

 

(3,159

)

 

 

(3,311

)

 

 

(5,078

)

TOTAL

 

 

89,181

 

 

 

84,421

 

 

 

86,662

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INCOME
 BEFORE INCOME TAXES

 

 

148,631

 

 

 

143,775

 

 

 

224,749

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Income
 taxes

 

 

81,756

 

 

 

96,623

 

 

 

85,638

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NET
 INCOME

 

 

66,875

 

 

 

47,152

 

 

 

139,111

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Preferred
 dividend requirements and other

 

 

6,873

 

 

 

6,873

 

 

 

6,873

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EARNINGS
 APPLICABLE TO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMON
 STOCK

 

$

60,002

 

 

$

40,279

 

 

$

132,238

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

273

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Page left blank intentionally)

 

 

 

274

 

 

ENTERGY
 ARKANSAS, INC.

 

STATEMENTS
 OF CASH FLOWS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net
 income

 

$

66,875

 

 

$

47,152

 

 

$

139,111

 

Adjustments
 to reconcile net income to net cash flow provided by operating
 activities:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Reserve
 for regulatory adjustments

 

 

(169

)

 

 

(751

)

 

 

(16,248

)

 Other
 regulatory charges (credits) - net

 

 

15,161

 

 

 

(26,747

)

 

 

(29,001

)

 Depreciation,
 amortization, and decommissioning

 

 

287,317

 

 

 

272,251

 

 

 

261,170

 

 Deferred
 income taxes, investment tax credits, and non-current taxes
 accrued

 

 

66,777

 

 

 

186,283

 

 

 

58,796

 

 Changes
 in working capital:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Receivables

 

 

3,477

 

 

 

67,197

 

 

 

(24,958

)

 Fuel
 inventory

 

 

163

 

 

 

5,282

 

 

 

2,468

 

 Accounts
 payable

 

 

(338,993

)

 

 

67,148

 

 

 

327,578

 

 Taxes
 accrued

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

(37,161

)

 Interest
 accrued

 

 

(1,103

)

 

 

7,760

 

 

 

(2,132

)

 Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

(3,741

)

 

 

(4,298

)

 

 

(112,606

)

 Other
 working capital accounts

 

 

330,263

 

 

 

(177,725

)

 

 

(274,898

)

 Provision
 for estimated losses and reserves

 

 

(2,708

)

 

 

1,511

 

 

 

(125

)

 Changes
 in other regulatory assets

 

 

(70,412

)

 

 

(219,091

)

 

 

15,626

 

 Changes
 in pension and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

6,501

 

 

 

181,539

 

 

 

1,234

 

 Other

 

 

24,784

 

 

 

52,740

 

 

 

57,264

 

Net
 cash flow provided by operating activities

 

 

384,192

 

 

 

460,251

 

 

 

366,118

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INVESTING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Construction
 expenditures

 

 

(338,752

)

 

 

(373,973

)

 

 

(304,901

)

Allowance
 for equity funds used during construction

 

 

5,219

 

 

 

6,259

 

 

 

11,143

 

Nuclear
 fuel purchases

 

 

(118,379

)

 

 

(105,279

)

 

 

(40,353

)

Proceeds
 from sale/leaseback of nuclear fuel

 

 

118,590

 

 

 

105,062

 

 

 

42,444

 

Payment
 for purchase of plant

 

 

-

 

 

 

(210,029

)

 

 

-

 

Proceeds
 from sale of plant

 

 

74,818

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

Proceeds
 from nuclear decommissioning trust fund sales

 

 

154,644

 

 

 

162,126

 

 

 

96,034

 

Investment
 in nuclear decommissioning trust funds

 

 

(164,879

)

 

 

(176,676

)

 

 

(108,814

)

Change
 in money pool receivable - net

 

 

(12,868

)

 

 

(15,991

)

 

 

14,298

 

Other

 

 

95

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

19

 

Net
 cash flow used in investing activities

 

 

(281,512

)

 

 

(608,501

)

 

 

(290,130

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FINANCING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Proceeds
 from the issuance of long-term debt

 

 

-

 

 

 

297,261

 

 

 

-

 

Change
 in money pool payable - net

 

 

-

 

 

 

(77,882

)

 

 

77,882

 

Dividends
 paid:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Common
 stock

 

 

(48,300

)

 

 

(24,900

)

 

 

(181,600

)

 Preferred
 stock

 

 

(6,873

)

 

 

(6,873

)

 

 

(6,873

)

Other

 

 

(842

)

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

Net
 cash flow provided by (used in) financing activities

 

 

(56,015

)

 

 

187,606

 

 

 

(110,591

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net
 increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 

 

46,665

 

 

 

39,356

 

 

 

(34,603

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 

 

39,568

 

 

 

212

 

 

 

34,815

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at end of period

 

$

86,233

 

 

$

39,568

 

 

$

212

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUPPLEMENTAL
 DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 paid/(received) during the period for:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Interest
 - net of amount capitalized

 

$

88,397

 

 

$

71,645

 

 

$

80,762

 

 Income
 taxes

 

$

1,434

 

 

$

(57,902

)

 

$

21,862

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

275

 

 

ENTERGY
 ARKANSAS, INC.

BALANCE
 SHEETS

ASSETS

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

December
 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT
 ASSETS

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Cash

 

$

3,336

 

 

$

3,292

 

 Temporary
 cash investments

 

 

82,897

 

 

 

36,276

 

 Total
 cash and cash investments

 

 

86,233

 

 

 

39,568

 

Accounts
 receivable:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Customer

 

 

93,754

 

 

 

113,135

 

 Allowance
 for doubtful accounts

 

 

(21,853

)

 

 

(19,882

)

 Associated
 companies

 

 

91,650

 

 

 

56,534

 

 Other

 

 

55,381

 

 

 

64,762

 

 Accrued
 unbilled revenues

 

 

76,126

 

 

 

71,118

 

 Total
 accounts receivable

 

 

295,058

 

 

 

285,667

 

Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

122,802

 

 

 

119,061

 

Fuel
 inventory - at average cost

 

 

15,060

 

 

 

15,223

 

Materials
 and supplies - at average cost

 

 

132,182

 

 

 

121,769

 

Deferred
 nuclear refueling outage costs

 

 

34,492

 

 

 

42,932

 

System
 agreement cost equalization

 

 

70,000

 

 

 

394,000

 

Prepayments
 and other

 

 

32,668

 

 

 

36,530

 

TOTAL

 

 

788,495

 

 

 

1,054,750

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
 PROPERTY AND INVESTMENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Investment
 in affiliates - at equity

 

 

11,201

 

 

 

11,200

 

Decommissioning
 trust funds

 

 

440,220

 

 

 

390,529

 

Non-utility
 property - at cost (less accumulated depreciation)

 

 

1,435

 

 

 

1,439

 

Other

 

 

2,976

 

 

 

5,391

 

TOTAL

 

 

455,832

 

 

 

408,559

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UTILITY
 PLANT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electric

 

 

7,602,975

 

 

 

7,305,165

 

Property
 under capital lease

 

 

1,364

 

 

 

1,417

 

Construction
 work in progress

 

 

114,998

 

 

 

142,391

 

Nuclear
 fuel under capital lease

 

 

173,076

 

 

 

125,072

 

Nuclear
 fuel

 

 

11,543

 

 

 

12,115

 

TOTAL
 UTILITY PLANT

 

 

7,903,956

 

 

 

7,586,160

 

Less
 - accumulated depreciation and amortization

 

 

3,534,056

 

 

 

3,272,280

 

UTILITY
 PLANT - NET

 

 

4,369,900

 

 

 

4,313,880

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DEFERRED
 DEBITS AND OTHER ASSETS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulatory
 assets:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Regulatory
 asset for income taxes - net

 

 

51,340

 

 

 

58,455

 

 Other
 regulatory assets

 

 

746,955

 

 

 

688,964

 

Other

 

 

23,118

 

 

 

43,605

 

TOTAL

 

 

821,413

 

 

 

791,024

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
 ASSETS

 

$

6,435,640

 

 

$

6,568,213

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

276

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 ARKANSAS, INC.

BALANCE
 SHEETS

LIABILITIES
 AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

December
 31,

 

 
 

 

 

2009

 

 

 

2008

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT
 LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Currently
 maturing long-term debt

 

$

100,000

 

 

$

-

 

Accounts
 payable:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

107,584

 

 

 

433,460

 

 Other

 

 

111,523

 

 

 

142,974

 

Customer
 deposits

 

 

67,480

 

 

 

60,558

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes

 

 

74,794

 

 

 

198,902

 

Interest
 accrued

 

 

24,104

 

 

 

25,207

 

Obligations
 under capital leases

 

 

72,838

 

 

 

60,276

 

Other

 

 

14,742

 

 

 

17,290

 

TOTAL

 

 

573,065

 

 

 

938,667

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NON-CURRENT
 LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes and taxes accrued

 

 

1,493,580

 

 

 

1,307,596

 

Accumulated
 deferred investment tax credits

 

 

47,909

 

 

 

51,881

 

Obligations
 under capital leases

 

 

101,601

 

 

 

66,214

 

Other
 regulatory liabilities

 

 

101,370

 

 

 

27,141

 

Decommissioning

 

 

566,374

 

 

 

540,709

 

Accumulated
 provisions

 

 

13,217

 

 

 

15,925

 

Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

448,421

 

 

 

441,920

 

Long-term
 debt

 

 

1,518,569

 

 

 

1,618,171

 

Other

 

 

43,623

 

 

 

43,780

 

TOTAL

 

 

4,334,664

 

 

 

4,113,337

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Commitments
 and Contingencies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Preferred
 stock without sinking fund

 

 

116,350

 

 

 

116,350

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SHAREHOLDERS'
 EQUITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Common
 stock, $0.01 par value, authorized 325,000,000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 shares;
 issued and outstanding 46,980,196 shares in 2009

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 and
 2008

 

 

470

 

 

 

470

 

Paid-in
 capital

 

 

588,444

 

 

 

588,444

 

Retained
 earnings

 

 

822,647

 

 

 

810,945

 

TOTAL

 

 

1,411,561

 

 

 

1,399,859

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

 

$

6,435,640

 

 

$

6,568,213

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

277

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 ARKANSAS, INC.

 

STATEMENTS
 OF RETAINED EARNINGS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Retained
 Earnings, January 1

 

$

810,945

 

 

$

795,566

 

 

$

844,928

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Add:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Net
 income

 

 

66,875

 

 

 

47,152

 

 

 

139,111

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deduct:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Dividends
 declared on common stock

 

 

48,300

 

 

 

24,900

 

 

 

181,600

 

 Preferred
 dividend requirements and other

 

 

6,873

 

 

 

6,873

 

 

 

6,873

 

 Total

 

 

55,173

 

 

 

31,773

 

 

 

188,473

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Retained
 Earnings, December 31

 

$

822,647

 

 

$

810,945

 

 

$

795,566

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

278

 

 

ENTERGY
 ARKANSAS, INC.

 

SELECTED
 FINANCIAL DATA - FIVE-YEAR COMPARISON

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 

2006

 

 

2005

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Operating
 revenues

 

$

2,211,263

 

 

$

2,328,349

 

 

$

2,032,965

 

 

$

2,092,683

 

 

$

1,789,055

 

Net
 Income

 

$

66,875

 

 

$

47,152

 

 

$

139,111

 

 

$

173,154

 

 

$

174,635

 

Total
 assets

 

$

6,435,640

 

 

$

6,568,213

 

 

$

5,999,806

 

 

$

5,541,036

 

 

$

5,368,010

 

Long-term
 obligations (1)

 

$

1,620,170

 

 

$

1,684,385

 

 

$

1,391,808

 

 

$

1,380,046

 

 

$

1,353,462

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1) Includes
 long-term debt (excluding currently maturing debt) and noncurrent capital
 lease obligations.

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

2009

 

 

 

2008

 

 

 

2007

 

 

 

2006

 

 

 

2005

 

 
 

 

(Dollars
 In Millions)

 

Electric
 Operating Revenues:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Residential

 

$

769

 

 

$

756

 

 

$

690

 

 

$

706

 

 

$

620

 

 Commercial

 

 

475

 

 

 

463

 

 

 

409

 

 

 

418

 

 

 

348

 

 Industrial

 

 

433

 

 

 

461

 

 

 

407

 

 

 

436

 

 

 

362

 

 Governmental

 

 

21

 

 

 

21

 

 

 

19

 

 

 

19

 

 

 

18

 

 Total
 retail

 

 

1,698

 

 

 

1,701

 

 

 

1,525

 

 

 

1,579

 

 

 

1,348

 

 Sales
 for resale:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

350

 

 

 

416

 

 

 

302

 

 

 

328

 

 

 

192

 

 Non-associated
 companies

 

 

102

 

 

 

156

 

 

 

156

 

 

 

145

 

 

 

211

 

 Other

 

 

61

 

 

 

55

 

 

 

50

 

 

 

41

 

 

 

38

 

 Total

 

$

2,211

 

 

$

2,328

 

 

$

2,033

 

 

$

2,093

 

 

$

1,789

 

Billed
 Electric Energy Sales (GWh):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Residential

 

 

7,464

 

 

 

7,678

 

 

 

7,725

 

 

 

7,655

 

 

 

7,653

 

 Commercial

 

 

5,817

 

 

 

5,875

 

 

 

5,945

 

 

 

5,816

 

 

 

5,730

 

 Industrial

 

 

6,376

 

 

 

7,211

 

 

 

7,424

 

 

 

7,587

 

 

 

7,334

 

 Governmental

 

 

269

 

 

 

274

 

 

 

277

 

 

 

273

 

 

 

288

 

 Total
 retail

 

 

19,926

 

 

 

21,038

 

 

 

21,371

 

 

 

21,331

 

 

 

21,005

 

 Sales
 for resale:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

9,980

 

 

 

7,890

 

 

 

7,185

 

 

 

7,679

 

 

 

4,555

 

 Non-associated
 companies

 

 

1,631

 

 

 

2,159

 

 

 

2,651

 

 

 

2,929

 

 

 

4,103

 

 Total

 

 

31,537

 

 

 

31,087

 

 

 

31,207

 

 

 

31,939

 

 

 

29,663

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

279

 

 

 

ENTERGY
GULF STATES LOUISIANA, L.L.C.

MANAGEMENT'S
FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Jurisdictional Separation of
Entergy Gulf States, Inc. into Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy
Texas

Effective December 31, 2007, Entergy
Gulf States, Inc. completed a jurisdictional separation into two vertically
integrated utility companies, one operating under the sole retail jurisdiction
of the PUCT, Entergy Texas, and the other operating under the sole retail
jurisdiction of the LPSC, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana. Management
believes that the jurisdictional separation will better align Entergy Gulf
States, Inc.'s Louisiana and Texas operations to serve customers in those states
and to operate consistent with state-specific regulatory requirements as the
utility regulatory environments in those jurisdictions evolve. The
jurisdictional separation provides for regulation of each separated company by a
single retail regulator, which should reduce regulatory complexity.

Entergy Texas now owns all Entergy Gulf
States, Inc. distribution and transmission assets located in Texas, the
gas-fired generating plants located in Texas, undivided 42.5% ownership shares
of Entergy Gulf States, Inc.'s 70% ownership interest in Nelson 6 and 42%
ownership interest in Big Cajun 2, Unit 3, which are coal-fired generating
plants located in Louisiana, and other assets and contract rights to the extent
related to utility operations in Texas. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana
now owns all of the remaining assets that were owned by Entergy Gulf States,
Inc. On a book value basis, approximately 58.1% of the Entergy Gulf
States, Inc. assets were allocated to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and
approximately 41.9% were allocated to Entergy Texas.

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana remains primarily liable for all of the long-term debt
issued by Entergy Gulf States, Inc. that was outstanding on December 31,
2007. Under a debt assumption agreement with Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana, Entergy Texas assumed its pro rata share of this long-term debt,
which was $1.079 billion, or approximately 46%, of which $168 million remains
outstanding at December 31, 2009. The pro rata share of the long-term
debt assumed by Entergy Texas was determined by first determining the net assets
for each company on a book value basis, and then calculating a debt assumption
ratio that resulted in the common equity ratios for each company being
approximately the same as the Entergy Gulf States, Inc. common equity ratio
immediately prior to the jurisdictional separation. Entergy Texas'
debt assumption does not discharge Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's liability for
the long-term debt. To secure its debt assumption obligations,
Entergy Texas granted to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana a first lien on Entergy
Texas' assets that were previously subject to the Entergy Gulf States, Inc.
mortgage. Entergy Texas has until December 31, 2010 to repay the
assumed debt. In addition, Entergy Texas, as the owner of Entergy
Gulf States Reconstruction Funding I, LLC ("EGSRF I"), reports the $329.5
million of senior secured transition bonds ("securitization bonds") issued by
EGSRF I as long-term debt on its consolidated balance sheet. The
securitization bonds are non-recourse to Entergy Texas.

Entergy
Texas will purchase from Entergy Gulf States Louisiana pursuant to a
life-of-unit purchased power agreement (PPA) a 42.5% share of capacity and
energy from the 70% of River Bend subject to retail
regulation. Entergy Texas was allocated a share of River Bend's
nuclear and environmental liabilities that is identical to the share of the
plant's output purchased by Entergy Texas under the PPA. Entergy Gulf
States Louisiana will purchase a 57.5% share of capacity and energy from the
gas-fired generating plants owned by Entergy Texas, and Entergy Texas will
purchase a 42.5% share of capacity and energy from the gas-fired generating
plants owned by Entergy Gulf States Louisiana. The PPAs associated
with the gas-fired generating plants will terminate when retail open access
commences in Entergy Texas' jurisdiction or when the unit(s) is no longer
dispatched by the Entergy System. If Entergy Texas implements retail
open access, it will terminate its participation in the System Agreement,
except for the portion of the System Agreement related to transmission
equalization. The dispatch and operation of the generating plants
will not change as a result of the jurisdictional separation.

As the
successor to Entergy Gulf States, Inc. for financial reporting purposes, Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana's income statement and cash flow statement for the year
ended December 31, 2007 include the operations of Entergy
Texas.

 

280

 

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Results of
Operations

Effect
of Jurisdictional Separation on 2008 Results of Operations

Following
are income statement variances for Entergy Gulf States Louisiana comparing the
year ended December 31, 2008 to the year ended December 31, 2007 showing how
much the line item increased or (decreased) in comparison to the prior
period:

 
 

 
 

 

 

Year

ended

December
 31, 2007

 
 

Variance

caused

directly
 by

the

jurisdictional

separation

 
 

 

 

Variance

caused
 by

other

factors

 
 

 

 

Year

ended

December
 31, 2008

 
 

 
 

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Net
 revenue (operating revenue less fuel expense,

purchased
 power, and other regulatory charges/credits)

 
 

 

$1,297,622

 
 

 

($442,283)

 
 

 

($21,545)

 
 

 

$833,794

Other
 operation and maintenance expenses

 
 

548,999

 
 

(179,119)

 
 

(32,086)

 
 

337,794

Taxes
 other than income taxes

 
 

132,489

 
 

(50,617)

 
 

(4,434)

 
 

77,438

Depreciation
 and amortization

 
 

208,648

 
 

(68,172)

 
 

(3,870)

 
 

136,606

Other
 expenses

 
 

23,940

 
 

(173)

 
 

14,471 

 
 

38,238

Other
 income

 
 

88,815

 
 

26,020 

 
 

(29,829)

 
 

85,006

Interest
 charges

 
 

155,881

 
 

(23,012)

 
 

(6,109)

 
 

126,760

Income
 taxes

 
 

123,701

 
 

(36,249)

 
 

(30,255)

 
 

57,197

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Net
 Income (Loss)

 
 

$192,779

 

($58,921)

 
 

$10,909 

 
 

$144,767

Net
Income

2009 Compared to
2008

Net income increased by $8.3 million
primarily due to higher net revenue, lower interest and other charges, and lower
taxes other than income taxes, partially offset by a higher effective income tax
rate and lower other income.

2008 Compared to
2007

Net income decreased $48 million
primarily due to the jurisdictional separation of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. into
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas, effective December 31, 2007, in
addition to lower other income and lower net revenue other than the effects
directly caused by the jurisdictional separation, partially offset by lower
other operation and maintenance expenses and a lower effective income tax
rate. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Entergy Texas reported
net income of $58.9 million.

Net
Revenue

2009 Compared to
2008

Net revenue consists of operating
revenues net of: 1) fuel, fuel-related expenses, and gas purchased for resale,
2) purchased power expenses, and 3) other regulatory
credits. Following is an analysis of the change in net revenue
comparing 2009 to 2008.

 

 

 

281

 

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

 
 

 
 

Amount

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

 
 

 
 

 
 

2008
 net revenue

 
 

$833.8 

Fuel
 recovery

 
 

22.1 

Volume/weather

 
 

18.2 

Retail
 electric price

 
 

(13.3)

Other

 
 

0.5 

2009
 net revenue

 
 

$861.3 

The fuel recovery variance resulted
primarily from an adjustment to deferred fuel costs in the fourth quarter 2009
relating to unrecovered nuclear fuel costs incurred since January 2008 that will
now be recovered after a revision to the fuel adjustment clause
methodology.

The volume/weather variance is
primarily due to an increase in unbilled sales volume, including the effects of
Hurricane Gustav and Hurricane Ike which decreased sales volume in 2008, and the
effect of more favorable weather.

The retail electric price variance is
primarily due to:

· 

a
 formula rate plan provision of $3.7 million recorded in the third quarter
 of 2009 for refunds made to customers in November 2009 in accordance with
 a settlement approved by the LPSC. See Note 2 to the financial
 statements for further discussion of the
 settlement;

· 

a
 credit passed on to customers as a result of the Act 55 storm cost
 financing; and

· 

a
 net decrease in the formula rate plan effective September 2008 to remove
 interim storm recovery upon the Act 55 financing of storm costs as well as
 the storm damage accrual. A portion of the decrease is offset
 in other operation and maintenance expenses. See Note 2 to the
 financial statements for further discussion of the formula rate
 plan.

The
decrease was partially offset by a formula rate plan increase effective
September 2008 and November 2009. Refer to "
MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS - 
State and
Local Rate Regulation

-Retail Rates - Electric"
 and Note 2 to the financial statements for a
discussion of the formula rate plan.

Gross
operating revenues and fuel and purchased power expenses

Gross operating revenues decreased
primarily due to:

· 

a
 decrease of $638.2 million in electric fuel cost recovery revenues due to
 lower fuel rates;

· 

a
 decrease of $245 million in gross wholesale revenue due to a decrease in
 the average price of energy available for resale sales;
 and

· 

a
 decrease of $33.5 million in gross gas revenue primarily due to lower fuel
 rates.

The
decrease was partially offset by formula rate plan increases effective November
2009 as discussed above.

Fuel and purchased power expenses
decreased primarily due to a decrease in the average market prices of natural
gas and purchased power and a decrease in deferred fuel expense due to decreased
recovery from customers of fuel costs in addition to a credit recorded in the
fourth quarter 2009 as a result of a revision to the fuel adjustment clause
methodology as explained above.

 

 

282

 

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

2008 Compared to
2007

Net revenue consists of operating
revenues net of: 1) fuel, fuel-related expenses, and gas purchased for resale,
2) purchased power expenses, and 3) other regulatory charges
(credits). Following is an analysis of the change in net revenue
comparing 2008 to 2007.

 
 

 
 

Amount

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

 
 

 
 

 
 

2007
 net revenue

 
 

$1,297.6 

Jurisdictional
 separation

 
 

(442.3)

Other

 
 

(21.5)

2008
 net revenue

 
 

$833.8 

Net revenue decreased primarily due to
the jurisdictional separation of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. into Entergy Gulf
States Louisiana and Entergy Texas, effective December 31, 2007.

The Other variance is primarily caused
by various operational effects of the jurisdictional separation on revenues and
fuel and purchased power expenses.

Gross
operating revenues, fuel and purchased power expenses, and other regulatory
charges (credits)

The change in gross operating revenues,
fuel and purchased power expenses, and other regulatory charges was primarily
caused by the jurisdictional separation of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. into
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas, effective December 31,
2007.

Other
Income Statement Variances

2009 Compared to
2008

Other operation and maintenance
expenses decreased primarily due to a decrease of $7.7 million in storm damage
reserves in 2009 as a result of the completion of the Act 55 storm cost
financing and a decrease of $5.5 million in payroll-related costs. The decrease
was partially offset by an increase of $7.8 million in nuclear expenses due to
higher nuclear labor and contract costs.

Taxes other than income taxes decreased
primarily due to a decrease in local franchise taxes as a result of lower
residential and commercial revenue.

Other income decreased primarily due
to:

· 

a
 decrease of $15.6 million in interest and dividend income related to the
 debt assumption agreement with Entergy Texas. Entergy Gulf
 States Louisiana remains primarily liable on this debt, of which $168
 million remained outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and $770 million
 remained outstanding as of December 31,
2008;

· 

the
 decrease of $4.7 million in carrying charges on Hurricane Katrina and
 Hurricane Rita storm restoration costs as a result of the Act 55 storm
 cost financing; and

· 

a
 decrease of $3.5 million in interest earned on money pool
 investments.

The
decrease is partially offset by additional distributions of $8.7 million earned
on preferred membership interests purchased from Entergy Holdings Company with
the proceeds received from the Act 55 storm costs financings and $5.5 million in
carrying charges on Hurricane Gustav and Hurricane Ike storm restoration
costs. See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of the
Act 55 storm cost financing.

Interest expense decreased primarily
due to a decrease of $421 million in long-term debt outstanding. See
Note 5 to the financial statements for a description of the decrease in
long-term debt.

 

 

 

 

283

 

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

2008 Compared to
2007

Other
operation and maintenance expenses decreased primarily due to:

· 

a
 decrease of $179.1 million due to the jurisdictional separation of Entergy
 Gulf States, Inc. into Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas,
 effective December 31, 2007;

· 

a
 decrease of $16.3 million in payroll, payroll-related, and benefit
 costs;

· 

a
 decrease of $9.7 million in nuclear labor and contract costs due to a
 non-refueling plant outage in March 2007;
and

· 

a
 decrease of $10.1 million in plant maintenance
 costs.

The
decrease was partially offset by an increase of $8.8 million in transmission
spending due to higher transmission equalization expenses.

Taxes other than income taxes decreased
primarily due to the jurisdictional separation of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. into
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas, effective December 31,
2007.

Nuclear refueling outage expenses
increased due to the amortization of higher expenses associated with the planned
maintenance and refueling outage at River Bend in the first quarter 2008 as well
as the delay of this outage from late 2007 to early 2008 resulting in a shorter
amortization period for these costs.

Depreciation and amortization decreased
primarily due to the jurisdictional separation of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. into
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas, effective December 31,
2007.

Other income includes $60 million in
interest and dividend income in 2008 related to the debt assumption agreement
between Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas and the $1.079 billion
of debt assumed by Entergy Texas as of December 31, 2007. Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana remains primarily liable on this debt, of which $770
million remained outstanding at December 31, 2008. The increase in
interest income is partially offset by $34 million of other income reported by
Entergy Texas for the year ended December 31, 2007. The income from
the debt assumption agreement offsets the interest expense on the portion of
long-term debt assumed by Entergy Texas. The remaining variance is
primarily due to the cessation of carrying charges on storm restoration costs as
a result of the securitization and a decrease in interest earned on money pool
investments, partially offset by dividends of $10.3 million earned on preferred
stock purchased from Entergy Holdings Company with the proceeds received from
the Act 55 Storm Cost Financings. See Note 2 to the financial
statements for a discussion of the Act 55 storm cost financing.

Interest
and other charges decreased primarily due to the jurisdictional separation of
Entergy Gulf States, Inc. into Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas,
effective December 31, 2007 and due to a decrease in long-term debt
outstanding.

Income
Taxes

The effective income tax rates were
36.8%, 28.3%, and 39.1% for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. See
Note 3 to the financial statements for a reconciliation of the federal statutory
rate of 35% to the effective income tax rate.

 

 

284

 

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Cash
Flow

Cash flows for the years ended December
31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 were as follows:

 
 

 
 

 
 

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

2007

 
 

 
 

 
 

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 
 

$49,303 

 
 

$108,036 

 
 

$180,381 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 flow provided by (used in):

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Operating
 activities

 
 

234,930 

 
 

562,897 

 
 

560,740 

 
 

Investing
 activities

 
 

(286,486)

 
 

(519,364)

 
 

(801,499)

 
 

Financing
 activities

 
 

146,713 

 
 

(102,266)

 
 

168,414 

 
 

 Net
 increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 
 

95,157 

 
 

(58,733)

 
 

(72,345)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at end of period

 
 

$144,460 

 
 

$49,303 

 
 

$108,036 

Operating
Activities

Net cash flow provided by operating
activities decreased $328 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to
storm cost proceeds of $274.7 million received from the Louisiana Utilities
Restoration Corporation (LURC) as a result of the Act 55 storm cost financing in
2008, decreased recovery of deferred fuel costs, and income tax payments of
$60.6 million in 2009 compared to income tax refunds of $1.8 million in 2008,
partially offset by a decrease of $28.2 million in pension contributions and
fluctuation in the timing of accounts receivable and payable
activity.

Net cash flow provided by operating
activities increased $2.2 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to
storm cost proceeds of $274.7 million received from the LURC as a result of the
Act 55 storm cost financing, almost entirely offset by the jurisdictional
separation of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. into Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and
Entergy Texas, effective December 31, 2007, increased recovery of fuel costs,
and an increase of $17.9 million in pension contributions. See Note 2
to the financial statements for a discussion of the Act 55 storm cost
financing.

Investing
Activities

Net cash flow used in investing
activities decreased $232.9 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due
to:

· 

the
 investment of $189.4 million in affiliate securities in 2008 as a result
 of the Act 55 storm cost financing. See Note 2 to the financial
 statements for a discussion of the Act 55 storm cost
 financing;

· 

higher
 construction expenditures in 2008 due to Hurricane
 Gustav;

· 

the
 purchase of the Calcasieu Generating Facility for $56 million in March
 2008; and

· 

timing
 differences between nuclear fuel purchases and fuel trust
 reimbursements.

The
decrease was partially offset by money pool activity and the purchase of
one-third of the Ouachita Power Plant for $75 million in November 2009 from
Entergy Arkansas. See "
Ouachita Power Plant"

below for a discussion of the purchase of the Ouachita Power
Plant. Increases in Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's receivable from
the money pool are a use of cash flow, and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's
receivable from the money pool increased by $38.5 million for the year ended
December 31, 2009 compared to decreasing by $43.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2008. The money pool is an inter-company borrowing
arrangement designed to reduce the Utility subsidiaries' need for external
short-term borrowings.

 

 

 

 

285

 

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Net cash used in investing activities
decreased $282.1 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to the cash
allocated to Entergy Texas in the jurisdictional separation transaction in 2007
and due to the effect of the jurisdictional separation on money pool
activity. The decrease was partially offset by the investment of
$189.4 million in affiliate securities as a result of the Act 55 storm costs
financings and the purchase of the Calcasieu Generating Facility for $56
million. See Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of
the Act 55 storm cost financing. In March 2008, Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana purchased Calcasieu, a 322 MW, simple-cycle, gas-fired power
plant, from a subsidiary of Dynegy Inc. The facility is located near
the city of Sulphur in southwestern Louisiana. Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana received the plant, materials and supplies, SO
2
 emission
allowances, and related real estate in the transaction. The FERC and
the LPSC approved the acquisition.

Decreases in Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana's receivable from the money pool are a source of cash flow, and
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's receivable from the money pool decreased by
$43.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to increasing by
$134.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.

Financing
Activities

Financing activities provided cash of
$146.7 million in 2009 compared to using cash of $102.3 million in 2008
primarily due to the issuance of $300 million of 5.59% Series first mortgage
bonds in October 2009 and a decrease of $73.5 million in common equity
distributions, partially offset by the retirement of $119 million of long term
debt in 2009.

Financing activities used cash of
$102.3 million in 2008 compared to providing cash of $168.4 million in 2007
primarily due to the issuance of $329.5 million of securitization bonds in June
2007 by a subsidiary of Entergy Texas, partially offset by the redemption of all
outstanding shares of Entergy Gulf States, Inc.'s preferred stock in December
2007.

Capital
Structure

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana's capitalization is balanced between equity and debt, as
shown in the following table. The calculation below does not reduce
the debt by the debt assumed by Entergy Texas ($168 million as of December 31,
2009, and $770 million as of December 31, 2008) because Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana remains primarily liable on the debt. The reduction in the
debt to capital ratio in 2009 is primarily due to the repayment in 2009 of $602
million of assumed debt by Entergy Texas.

 
 

 
 

December
 31,

 2009

 
 

December
 31,

 2008

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Net
 debt to net capital

 
 

53.0%

 
 

61.6%

Effect
 of subtracting cash from debt

 
 

2.1%

 
 

0.6%

Debt
 to capital

 
 

55.1%

 
 

62.2%

Net debt
consists of debt less cash and cash equivalents. Debt consists of
notes payable, capital lease obligations, preferred membership interests with
sinking fund, and long-term debt, including the currently maturing
portion. Capital consists of debt and members' equity. Net
capital consists of capital less cash and cash equivalents. Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana uses the net debt to net capital ratio in analyzing its
financial condition and believes it provides useful information to its investors
and creditors in evaluating Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's financial
condition.

Uses
of Capital

Entergy Gulf States Louisiana requires
capital resources for:

· 

construction
 and other capital investments;

·
 

debt
 and preferred equity maturities;

· 

working
 capital purposes, including the financing of fuel and purchased power
 costs; and

· 

distribution
 and interest payments.

 

 

286

 

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Following
are the amounts of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's planned construction and
other capital investments, existing debt and lease obligations (includes
estimated interest payments), and other purchase obligations:

 
 

2010

 
 

2011-2012

 
 

2013-2014

 
 

after
 2014

 
 

Total

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

Planned
 construction and

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 capital
 investment (1)

$255

 
 

$488

 
 

N/A

 
 

N/A

 
 

$743

 
 

Long-term
 debt (2)

$105

 
 

$406

 
 

$194

 
 

$2,020

 
 

$2,725

 
 

Operating
 leases

$13

 
 

$22

 
 

$27

 
 

$61

 
 

$123

 
 

Purchase
 obligations (3)

$156

 
 

$221

 
 

$73

 
 

$78

 
 

$528

 
 

Nuclear
 fuel lease obligations (4)

$30

 
 

$126

 
 

N/A

 
 

N/A

 
 

$156

 
 

(1)

Includes
 approximately $128 million annually for maintenance capital, which is
 planned spending on routine capital projects that are necessary to support
 reliability of service, equipment or systems and to support normal
 customer growth.

(2)

Includes
 estimated interest payments. Long-term debt is discussed in
 Note 5 to the financial statements.

(3)

Purchase
 obligations represent the minimum purchase obligation or cancellation
 charge for contractual obligations to purchase goods or
 services. For Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, it primarily
 includes unconditional fuel and purchased power
 obligations.

(4)

It
 is expected that additional financing under the leases will be arranged as
 needed to acquire additional fuel, to pay interest, and to pay maturing
 debt. If such additional financing cannot be arranged, however,
 Entergy Gulf States Louisiana must repurchase sufficient nuclear fuel to
 allow the lessor to meet its
obligations.

In
addition to the contractual obligations given above, Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana expects to contribute $21.9 million to its pension plans and $8.4
million to other postretirement plans in 2010; although the required pension
contributions will not be known with more certainty until the January 1, 2010
valuations are completed by April 1, 2010. Also, guidance pursuant to
the Pension Protection Act of 2006 rules, effective for the 2008 plan year and
beyond, continues to evolve, be interpreted through technical corrections bills,
and discussed within the industry and by congressional lawmakers. Any
changes to the Pension Protection Act as a result of these discussions and
efforts may affect the level of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s pension
contributions in the future.

Also, in addition to the contractual
obligations, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana has $245.8 million of unrecognized
tax benefits and interest net of unused tax attributes for which the timing of
payments beyond 12 months cannot be reasonably estimated due to uncertainties in
the timing of effective settlement of tax positions. See Note 3 to
the financial statements for additional information regarding unrecognized tax
benefits.

The planned capital investment estimate
for Entergy Gulf States Louisiana reflects capital required to support existing
business and customer growth. Entergy's Utility supply plan
initiative will continue to seek to transform its generation portfolio with new
or repowered generation resources. Opportunities resulting from the
supply plan initiative, including new projects or the exploration of alternative
financing sources, could result in increases or decreases in the capital
expenditure estimates given above. The estimated capital expenditures
are subject to periodic review and modification and may vary based on the
ongoing effects of regulatory constraints, environmental compliance, market
volatility, economic trends, business restructuring, and the ability to access
capital. Management provides more information on long-term debt and
preferred membership interest maturities in Notes 5 and 6 to the financial
statements.

As an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary
of Entergy Corporation, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana pays distributions from
its earnings at a percentage determined monthly. Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana's long-term debt indentures contain restrictions on the payment of
cash dividends or other distributions on its common and preferred membership
interests.

 

 

 

287

 

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Ouachita Power
Plant

In August 2008, the LPSC issued an
order approving an uncontested settlement between Entergy Gulf States Louisiana
and the LPSC Staff authorizing Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's purchase, under a
life-of-unit agreement, of one-third of the capacity and energy from the 789 MW
Ouachita power plant. The LPSC's approval was subject to certain
conditions, including a study to determine the costs and benefits of Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana exercising an option to purchase one-third of the plant
(Unit 3) from Entergy Arkansas. In April 2009, Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana made a filing with the LPSC seeking approval of Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana exercising its option to convert its purchased power agreement into
the ownership interest in Unit 3 and a one-third interest in the Ouachita common
facilities. In September 2009 the LPSC, pursuant to an uncontested
settlement, approved the acquisition and a cost recovery
mechanism. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana purchased Unit 3 and a
one-third interest in the Ouachita common facilities for $75 million in November
2009.

New Nuclear
Development

Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and
Entergy Louisiana provided public notice to the LPSC of their intention to make
a filing pursuant to the LPSC's general order that governs the development of
new nuclear generation in Louisiana. The project option being
developed by the companies is for new nuclear generation at River
Bend. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana, together
with Entergy Mississippi, have been engaged in the development of options to
construct new nuclear generation at the River Bend and Grand Gulf
sites. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana are
leading the development at River Bend, and Entergy Mississippi is leading the
development at Grand Gulf. This project is in the early stages, and
several issues remain to be addressed over time before significant additional
capital would be committed to this project. In 2010, Entergy Gulf
States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana each paid for and will recognize on its
books $24.9 million in costs associated with the development of new nuclear
generation at the River Bend site; these costs previously had been recorded on
the books of Entergy New Nuclear Development, LLC, a System Energy
subsidiary. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana will
share costs going forward on a 50/50 basis, which reflects each company's
current participation level in the project. In response to the
companies' previous notice, dated August 10, 2009, the LPSC opened a
docket. A procedural schedule will be established after the companies
file the certification application referred to in the notice.

Sources
of Capital

Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's sources
to meet its capital requirements include:

· 

internally
 generated funds;

· 

cash
 on hand;

· 

debt
 or preferred membership interest issuances;
and

·
 

bank
 financing under new or existing
facilities.

Entergy Gulf States Louisiana may
refinance or redeem debt and preferred equity/membership interests prior to
maturity, to the extent market conditions and interest and dividend rates are
favorable.

 

 
 
All debt and common and preferred equity/membership interest issuances by
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana require prior regulatory
approval. Preferred equity/membership interest and debt issuances are
also subject to issuance tests set forth in its corporate charter, bond
indentures, and other agreements. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana has
sufficient capacity under these tests to meet its foreseeable capital
needs.

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana's receivables from the money pool were as follows as of
December 31 for each of the following years:

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

2007

 
 

2006

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$50,131

 
 

$11,589

 
 

$55,509

 
 

$75,048

See Note
4 to the financial statements for a description of the money pool.

 

 

288

 

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana has a credit facility in the amount of $100 million
scheduled to expire in August 2012. No borrowings were outstanding
under the credit facility as of December 31, 2009.

Entergy Gulf States Louisiana obtained
short-term borrowing authorization from the FERC under which it may borrow
through October 2011, up to the aggregate amount, at any one time outstanding,
of $200 million. See Note 4 to the financial statements for further
discussion of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's short-term borrowing
limits. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana has also obtained an order from
the FERC authorizing long-term securities issuances through July
2011.

Hurricane Gustav and
Hurricane Ike

In September 2008, Hurricane Gustav and
Hurricane Ike caused catastrophic damage to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's
service territory. The storms resulted in widespread power outages,
significant damage to distribution, transmission, and generation infrastructure,
and the loss of sales during the power outages. In October 2008,
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana drew all of its $85 million funded storm
reserve. On October 15, 2008, the LPSC approved Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana's request to defer and accrue carrying cost on unrecovered storm
expenditures during the period the company seeks regulatory
recovery. The approval was without prejudice to the ultimate
resolution of the total amount of prudently incurred storm cost or final
carrying cost rate.

Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and
Entergy Louisiana filed their Hurricane Gustav and Hurricane Ike storm cost
recovery case with the LPSC in May 2009. In September 2009, Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana made a supplemental filing to, among
other things, recommend recovery of the costs and replenishment of the storm
reserves by Louisiana Act 55 (passed in 2007) financing. Entergy Gulf
States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana recovered their costs from Hurricane
Katrina and Hurricane Rita primarily by Act 55 financing, as discussed
below. On December 30, 2009, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and
Entergy Louisiana entered into a stipulation agreement with the LPSC Staff that,
if approved, provides for total recoverable costs of approximately $234 million
for Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and $394 million for Entergy
Louisiana. Under this stipulation, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana
agrees not to recover $4.4 million and Entergy Louisiana agrees not to recover
$7.2 million of their storm restoration spending. The stipulation
also permits replenishing Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's storm reserve in the
amount of $90 million and Entergy Louisiana's storm reserve in the amount of
$200 million when Act 55 financing is accomplished. The parties to
the proceeding have agreed to a procedural schedule that includes March/April
2010 hearing dates for both the recoverability and the method of recovery
proceedings.

Hurricane Rita and Hurricane
Katrina

In August and September 2005,
Hurricanes Katrina and Rita hit Entergy Gulf States Inc.'s jurisdictions in
Louisiana and Texas. The storms resulted in power outages;
significant damage to electric distribution, transmission, and generation
infrastructure; and the temporary loss of sales and customers due to mandatory
evacuations. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana pursued a range of
initiatives to recover storm restoration and business continuity costs and
incremental losses. Initiatives included obtaining reimbursement of
certain costs covered by insurance and pursuing recovery through existing or new
rate mechanisms regulated by the FERC and local regulatory bodies, in
combination with securitization.

Insurance
Claims

Entergy has received a total of $317
million as of December 31, 2009 on its Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita
insurance claims, including the settlements of its Hurricane Katrina claims with
each of its two excess insurers. Of the $317 million received, $21
million was allocated to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana. Entergy has
substantially completed its insurance recoveries related to Hurricane Katrina
and Hurricane Rita.

 

 

289

 

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Storm
Cost Financings

In March 2008, Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and the Louisiana Utilities Restoration
Corporation (LURC), an instrumentality of the State of Louisiana, filed at the
LPSC an application requesting that the LPSC grant financing orders authorizing
the financing of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana storm
costs, storm reserves, and issuance costs pursuant to Act 55 of the Louisiana
Legislature (Act 55 financings). The Act 55 financings are expected
to produce additional customer benefits as compared to Act 64 traditional
securitization. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana also
filed an application requesting LPSC approval for ancillary issues including the
mechanism to flow charges and savings to customers via a Storm Cost Offset
rider. On April 3, 2008, the Louisiana State Bond Commission granted
preliminary approval for the Act 55 financings. On April 8, 2008, the
Louisiana Public Facilities Authority (LPFA), which is the issuer of the bonds
pursuant to the Act 55 financings, approved requests for the Act 55
financings. On April 10, 2008, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy
Louisiana and the LPSC Staff filed with the LPSC an uncontested stipulated
settlement that includes Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana's
proposals under the Act 55 financings, which includes a commitment to pass on to
customers a minimum of $10 million and $30 million of customer benefits,
respectively, through prospective annual rate reductions of $2 million and $6
million for five years. On April 16, 2008, the LPSC approved the
settlement and issued two financing orders and one ratemaking order intended to
facilitate implementation of the Act 55 financings. In May 2008, the
Louisiana State Bond Commission granted final approval of the Act 55
financings.

On August 26, 2008, the LPFA issued
$278.4 million in bonds under the aforementioned Act 55. From the
$274.7 million of bond proceeds loaned by the LPFA to the LURC, the LURC
deposited $87 million in a restricted escrow account as a storm damage reserve
for Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and transferred $187.7 million directly to
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana. From the bond proceeds received by
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana from the LURC, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana
invested $189.4 million, including $1.7 million that was withdrawn from the
restricted escrow account as approved by the April 16, 2008 LPSC orders, in
exchange for 1,893,918.39 Class A preferred, non-voting, membership interest
units of Entergy Holdings Company LLC, a company wholly-owned and consolidated
by Entergy, that carry a 10% annual distribution rate. Distributions
are payable quarterly commencing on September 15, 2008 and have a liquidation
price of $100 per unit. The preferred membership interests are
callable at the option of Entergy Holdings Company LLC after ten years under the
terms of the LLC agreement. The terms of the membership interests
include certain financial covenants to which Entergy Holdings Company LLC is
subject, including the requirement to maintain a net worth of at least $1
billion.

Entergy Gulf States Louisiana does not
report the bonds on its balance sheet because the bonds are the obligation of
the LPFA, and there is no recourse against Entergy Gulf States Louisiana in the
event of a bond default.

State and Local Rate
Regulation

The rates that Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana charges for its services significantly influence its financial
position, results of operations, and liquidity. Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana is regulated and the rates charged to its customers are determined in
regulatory proceedings. A governmental agency, the LPSC is primarily
responsible for approval of the rates charged to customers.

Retail
Rates - Electric

In March 2005, the LPSC approved a
settlement proposal to resolve various dockets covering a range of issues for
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana. The settlement
included the establishment of a three-year formula rate plan for Entergy Gulf
States Louisiana that, among other provisions, establishes a return on common
equity mid-point of 10.65% for the initial three-year term of the plan and
permits Entergy Gulf States Louisiana to recover incremental capacity costs
outside of a traditional base rate proceeding. Under the formula rate
plan, over- and under-earnings outside an allowed range of 9.9% to 11.4% are
allocated 60% to customers and 40% to Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana made its initial formula
rate plan filing in June 2005. The formula rate plan was subsequently
extended one year. As discussed below the formula rate plan has been
extended, with return on common equity provisions consistent with previously
approved provisions, to cover the 2008, 2009, and 2010 test years.

 

 

290

 

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

In
October 2009 the LPSC approved a settlement that resolves Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana's 2007 test year filing. The settlement provides for a new
formula rate plan for the 2008, 2009, and 2010 test years. Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana is permitted, effective with the November 2009 billing
cycle, to reset its rates to achieve a 10.65% return on equity for the 2008 test
year. 10.65% is the target midpoint return on equity for the new
formula rate plan, with an earnings bandwidth of +/- 75 basis points (9.90% -
11.40%). The rate reset, a $44.3 million increase that includes a
$36.9 million cost of service adjustment, plus $7.4 million net for increased
capacity costs and a base rate reclassification, was implemented for the
November 2009 billing cycle, and the rate reset will be subject to refund
pending review of the 2008 test year filing that was made on October 21,
2009. The settlement does not allow recovery through the formula rate
plan of most of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's costs associated with Entergy's
stock option plan. Pursuant to the settlement Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana refunded to its customers $3.7 million, which includes interest, in
the November 2009 billing cycle. In January 2010, Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana implemented an additional $23.9 million rate increase pursuant to a
special rate implementation filing made in December 2009, primarily for
incremental capacity costs approved by the LPSC. The discovery and
comment period for the 2008 test year filing is currently open, and Entergy Gulf
States Louisiana will implement any agreed changes by March 15,
2010. A procedural schedule to address any contested issues would be
set after March 15, 2010.

In December 2009, Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana filed an application seeking LPSC approval for a $9.7 million
revenue requirement to provide supplemental funding for the decommissioning
trust maintained for the LPSC-regulated 70% share of River Bend, in response to
an NRC notification of a projected shortfall of decommissioning funding
assurance. Currently, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's annual retail
rates contain no amount for decommissioning funding.

In May
2008, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana made its formula rate plan filing with the
LPSC for the 2007 test year. The filing reflected a 9.26% return on
common equity, which was below the allowed earnings bandwidth, and indicated a
$5.4 million revenue deficiency, offset by a $4.1 million decrease in required
additional capacity costs. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana implemented
a $20.7 million formula rate plan decrease, subject to refund, effective the
first billing cycle in September 2008. The decrease included removal
of interim storm cost recovery and a reduction in the storm damage
accrual. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana then implemented a $16.0
million formula rate plan increase, subject to refund, effective the first
billing cycle in October 2008 to collect previously deferred and ongoing costs
associated with LPSC approved additional capacity, including the Ouachita power
plant. In November 2008 Entergy Gulf States Louisiana filed to
implement an additional increase of $9.3 million to recover the costs of a new
purchased power agreement.

In May
2007, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana made its formula rate plan filing with the
LPSC for the 2006 test year. The filing reflected a 10.0% return on
common equity, which was within the allowed earnings bandwidth, and an
anticipated formula rate plan decrease of $23 million annually attributable to
adjustments outside of the formula rate plan sharing mechanism related to
capacity costs and the anticipated securitization of storm costs related to
Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita and the securitization of a storm
reserve. In September 2007, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana modified
the formula rate plan filing to reflect a 10.07% return on common equity, which
was still within the allowed bandwidth. The modified filing also
reflected implementation of a $4.1 million rate increase, subject to refund,
attributable to recovery of additional LPSC-approved incremental deferred and
ongoing capacity costs. The rate decrease anticipated in the original
filing did not occur because of the additional capacity costs approved by the
LPSC, and because securitization of storm costs associated with Hurricane
Katrina and Hurricane Rita and the establishment of a storm reserve had not yet
occurred. In October 2007, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana implemented
a $16.4 million formula rate plan decrease that was due to the reclassification
of certain franchise fees from base rates to collection via a line item on
customer bills pursuant to an LPSC order. In March 2008 the LPSC
approved an uncontested stipulated settlement that left the current base rates
in place and extended the formula rate plan for one year.

In May 2006, Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana made its formula rate plan filing with the LPSC for the 2005 test
year. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana modified the filing in August
2006 to reflect an 11.1% return on common equity which is within the allowed
bandwidth. The modified filing includes a formula rate plan increase
of $17.2 million annually that provides for 1) interim recovery of $10.5 million
of storm costs from Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita and 2) recovery of $6.7
million of LPSC-approved incremental deferred and ongoing

 

 

 

291

 

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

capacity
costs. The increase was implemented with the first billing cycle of
September 2006. In May 2007 the LPSC approved a settlement between
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and the LPSC staff, affirming the rates that were
implemented in September 2006.

Retail
Rates - Gas

In January 2010, Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana filed with the LPSC its gas rate stabilization plan for the test year
ended September 30, 2009. The filing showed an earned return on common
equity of 10.87%, which is within the earnings bandwidth of 10.5% plus or minus
fifty basis points. The sixty day review and comment period for this
filing remains open.

In January 2009, Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana filed with the LPSC its gas rate stabilization plan for the test year
ending September 30, 2008. The filing showed a revenue deficiency of $529
thousand based on a return on common equity mid-point of 10.5%. In
April 2009, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana implemented a $255 thousand rate
increase pursuant to an uncontested settlement with the LPSC staff.

In
January 2008, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana filed with the LPSC its gas rate
stabilization plan for the test year ending September 30, 2007. The filing
showed a revenue deficiency of $3.7 million based on a return on common equity
mid-point of 10.5%. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana implemented a $3.4
million rate increase in April 2008 pursuant to an uncontested agreement with
the LPSC staff.

In
January 2007, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana filed with the LPSC its gas rate
stabilization plan for the test year ending September 30, 2006. The filing
showed a revenue deficiency of $3.5 million based on a return on common equity
mid-point of 10.5%. In March 2007, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana filed a
set of rate and rider schedules that reflected all proposed LPSC staff
adjustments and implemented a $2.4 million base rate increase effective with the
first billing cycle of April 2007 pursuant to the rate stabilization
plan.

Federal
Regulation

System Agreement
Proceedings

See
"
System Agreement
Proceedings
" in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries' Management's
Discussion and Analysis for discussion of the proceeding at the FERC involving
the System Agreement and of other related proceedings.

Transmission

See "
Independent Coordinator of
Transmission
" in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries' Management's
Discussion and Analysis for further discussion.

Industrial and Commercial
Customers

Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's large
industrial and commercial customers continually explore ways to reduce their
energy costs. In particular, cogeneration is an option available to a
portion of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's industrial customer
base. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana responds by working with
industrial and commercial customers and negotiating electric service contracts
to provide competitive rates that match specific customer needs and load
profiles. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana actively participates in
economic development, customer retention, and reclamation activities to increase
industrial and commercial demand, from both new and existing
customers. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana does not currently expect
additional significant losses to cogeneration because of the current economics
of the electricity markets and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's marketing efforts
in retaining industrial customers.

 

 

292

 

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Nuclear
Matters

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana owns and operates, through an affiliate, the River Bend
nuclear power plant. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana is, therefore,
subject to the risks related to owning and operating a nuclear
plant. These include risks from the use, storage, handling and
disposal of high-level and low-level radioactive materials, regulatory
requirement changes, including changes resulting from events at other plants,
limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available for
losses in connection with nuclear operations, and technological and financial
uncertainties related to decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their
licensed lives, including the sufficiency of funds in decommissioning
trusts. In the event of an unanticipated early shutdown of River
Bend, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana may be required to provide additional funds
or credit support to satisfy regulatory requirements for
decommissioning.

Environmental
Risks

Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's
facilities and operations are subject to regulation by various governmental
authorities having jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of
toxic substances and hazardous and solid wastes, and other environmental
matters. Management believes that Entergy Gulf States Louisiana is in
substantial compliance with environmental regulations currently applicable to
its facilities and operations. Because environmental regulations are
subject to change, future compliance costs cannot be precisely
estimated.

Critical Accounting
Estimates

The
preparation of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
apply appropriate accounting policies and to make estimates and judgments that
can have a significant effect on reported financial position, results of
operations, and cash flows. Management has identified the following
accounting policies and estimates as critical because they are based on
assumptions and measurements that involve a high degree of uncertainty, and the
potential for future changes in the assumptions and measurements that could
produce estimates that would have a material effect on the presentation of
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's financial position or results of
operations.

Nuclear
Decommissioning Costs

See
"
Nuclear Decommissioning
Costs
" in the "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
" section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries'
Management's Discussion and Analysis for discussion of the estimates inherent in
accounting for nuclear decommissioning costs.

Unbilled
Revenue

As
discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana
records an estimate of the revenues earned for energy delivered since the latest
customer billing. Each month the estimated unbilled revenue amounts
are recorded as revenue and a receivable, and the prior month's estimate is
reversed. The difference between the estimate of the unbilled
receivable at the beginning of the period and the end of the period is the
amount of unbilled revenue recognized during the period. The estimate
recorded is primarily based upon an estimate of customer usage during the
unbilled period and the billed price to customers in that
month. Therefore, revenue recognized may be affected by the estimated
price and usage at the beginning and end of each period, in addition to changes
in certain components of the calculation.

Qualified
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

Entergy
sponsors qualified defined benefit pension plans which cover substantially all
employees. Additionally, Entergy currently provides postretirement
health care and life insurance benefits for substantially all employees who
reach retirement age while still working for Entergy. Entergy's
reported costs of providing these benefits, as described in Note 11 to the
financial statements, are impacted by numerous factors including the provisions
of the plans, changing employee demographics, and various actuarial
calculations, assumptions,

 

 

 

293

 

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

and
accounting mechanisms. See the "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
" section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
Management's Discussion and Analysis for further discussion. Because
of the complexity of these calculations, the long-term nature of these
obligations, and the importance of the assumptions utilized, Entergy's estimate
of these costs is a critical accounting estimate.

Cost
Sensitivity

The
following chart reflects the sensitivity of qualified pension cost to changes in
certain actuarial assumptions (dollars in thousands):

 

 

Actuarial
 Assumption

 
 

 

Change
 in

Assumption

 
 

 

Impact
 on 2009

Qualified
 Pension Cost

 
 

Impact
 on Qualified

 Projected

Benefit
 Obligation

 
 

 
 

Increase/(Decrease)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Discount
 rate

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$1,160

 
 

$12,054

Rate
 of return on plan assets

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$884

 
 

-

Rate
 of increase in compensation

 
 

0.25%

 
 

$542

 
 

$2,658

The
following chart reflects the sensitivity of postretirement benefit cost to
changes in certain actuarial assumptions (dollars in thousands):

 

 

Actuarial
 Assumption

 
 

 

Change
 in

Assumption

 
 

 

Impact
 on 2009

Postretirement
 Benefit Cost

 
 

Impact
 on Accumulated

Postretirement
 Benefit

Obligation

 
 

 
 

Increase/(Decrease)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Health
 care cost trend

 
 

0.25%

 
 

$683

 
 

$3,814

Discount
 rate

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$415

 
 

$4,074

Each
fluctuation above assumes that the other components of the calculation are held
constant.

Costs and
Funding

Total
qualified pension income for Entergy Gulf States Louisiana in 2009 was $1.2
million. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana anticipates 2010 qualified
pension cost to be $10 million. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana
contributed $6 million to its pension plans in 2009 and estimates 2010 pension
contributions to be approximately $21.9 million; although the required pension
contributions will not be known with more certainty until the January 1, 2010
valuations are completed by April 1, 2010. Also, guidance pursuant to
the Pension Protection Act of 2006 rules, effective for the 2008 plan year and
beyond, continues to evolve, be interpreted through technical corrections bills,
and discussed within the industry and by congressional lawmakers. Any
changes to the Pension Protection Act as a result of these discussions and
efforts may affect the level of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana’s pension
contributions in the future.

Total
postretirement health care and life insurance benefit costs for Entergy Gulf
States Louisiana in 2009 were $14.7 million, including $3.3 million in savings
due to the estimated effect of future Medicare Part D
subsidies. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana expects 2010 postretirement
health care and life insurance benefit costs to approximate $16.6 million,
including $3.4 million in savings due to the estimated effect of future Medicare
Part D subsidies. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana expects to contribute
approximately $8.4 million to its other postretirement plans in
2010.

New Accounting
Pronouncements

See "
New
Accounting Pronouncements
" section of Entergy Corporation and
Subsidiaries' Management's Discussion and Analysis for a discussion of new
accounting pronouncements.

 

294

 

 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Members of

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Baton
Rouge, Louisiana

We have
audited the accompanying balance sheets of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.
(the “Company”) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related
statements of income, members’ equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows
(pages 296 through 300 and applicable items in pages 63 through 193) for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our
opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C. as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.

As
discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, Entergy Gulf States, Inc.
completed a jurisdictional separation on December 31, 2007. As
part of the separation, Entergy Gulf States, Inc. contributed certain assets and
liabilities to Entergy Texas, Inc. and Subsidiaries and reflected the
distribution in the accompanying balance sheet and statement of members’ equity
as of December 31, 2007.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 24, 2010 expressed an
unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

295

 

ENTERGY
 GULF STATES LOUISIANA, L.L.C.

INCOME
 STATEMENTS

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 REVENUES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electric

 

$

1,776,610

 

 

$

2,632,952

 

 

$

3,448,008

 

Natural
 gas

 

 

67,776

 

 

 

100,413

 

 

 

86,604

 

TOTAL

 

 

1,844,386

 

 

 

2,733,365

 

 

 

3,534,612

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 EXPENSES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Operation
 and Maintenance:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Fuel,
 fuel-related expenses, and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 gas
 purchased for resale

 

 

251,393

 

 

 

474,314

 

 

 

867,081

 

 Purchased
 power

 

 

732,943

 

 

 

1,425,936

 

 

 

1,339,986

 

 Nuclear
 refueling outage expenses

 

 

21,787

 

 

 

25,705

 

 

 

12,212

 

 Other
 operation and maintenance

 

 

332,450

 

 

 

337,794

 

 

 

548,999

 

Decommissioning

 

 

13,591

 

 

 

12,533

 

 

 

11,728

 

Taxes
 other than income taxes

 

 

67,559

 

 

 

77,438

 

 

 

132,489

 

Depreciation
 and amortization

 

 

135,489

 

 

 

136,606

 

 

 

208,648

 

Other
 regulatory charges (credits) - net

 

 

(1,261

)

 

 

(679

)

 

 

29,923

 

TOTAL

 

 

1,553,951

 

 

 

2,489,647

 

 

 

3,151,066

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 INCOME

 

 

290,435

 

 

 

243,718

 

 

 

383,546

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
 INCOME

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Allowance
 for equity funds used during construction

 

 

5,426

 

 

 

7,417

 

 

 

11,666

 

Interest
 and dividend income

 

 

69,951

 

 

 

83,105

 

 

 

75,425

 

Miscellaneous
 - net

 

 

(8,764

)

 

 

(5,516

)

 

 

1,724

 

TOTAL

 

 

66,613

 

 

 

85,006

 

 

 

88,815

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INTEREST
 AND OTHER CHARGES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Interest
 on long-term debt

 

 

110,819

 

 

 

123,439

 

 

 

149,464

 

Other
 interest - net

 

 

7,424

 

 

 

7,758

 

 

 

13,945

 

Allowance
 for borrowed funds used during construction

 

 

(3,427

)

 

 

(4,437

)

 

 

(7,528

)

TOTAL

 

 

114,816

 

 

 

126,760

 

 

 

155,881

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INCOME
 BEFORE INCOME TAXES

 

 

242,232

 

 

 

201,964

 

 

 

316,480

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Income
 taxes

 

 

89,185

 

 

 

57,197

 

 

 

123,701

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NET
 INCOME

 

 

153,047

 

 

 

144,767

 

 

 

192,779

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Preferred
 distribution requirements and other

 

 

825

 

 

 

825

 

 

 

3,968

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EARNINGS
 APPLICABLE TO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMON
 EQUITY

 

$

152,222

 

 

$

143,942

 

 

$

188,811

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

296

 

 

ENTERGY
 GULF STATES LOUISIANA, L.L.C.

 

STATEMENTS
 OF CASH FLOWS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net
 income

 

$

153,047

 

 

$

144,767

 

 

$

192,779

 

Adjustments
 to reconcile net income to net cash flow provided by operating
 activities:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Reserve
 for regulatory adjustments

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

363

 

 Other
 regulatory charges (credits) - net

 

 

(1,261

)

 

 

(679

)

 

 

29,923

 

 Depreciation,
 amortization, and decommissioning

 

 

149,080

 

 

 

149,139

 

 

 

220,376

 

 Deferred
 income taxes, investment tax credits, and non-current taxes
 accrued

 

 

138,817

 

 

 

47,846

 

 

 

98,734

 

 Changes
 in working capital:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Receivables

 

 

177,628

 

 

 

(8,661

)

 

 

(261,538

)

 Fuel
 inventory

 

 

4,453

 

 

 

(1,941

)

 

 

(18,377

)

 Accounts
 payable

 

 

(131,603

)

 

 

(40,025

)

 

 

38,685

 

 Taxes
 accrued

 

 

(418

)

 

 

418

 

 

 

(27,781

)

 Interest
 accrued

 

 

(5,403

)

 

 

714

 

 

 

22,963

 

 Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

(49,625

)

 

 

97,620

 

 

 

35,363

 

 Other
 working capital accounts

 

 

(116,816

)

 

 

(33,796

)

 

 

197,802

 

 Provision
 for estimated losses and reserves

 

 

773

 

 

 

2,009

 

 

 

(91,241

)

 Changes
 in other regulatory assets

 

 

(44,612

)

 

 

70,448

 

 

 

116,317

 

 Changes
 in pension and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

46,083

 

 

 

85,880

 

 

 

(39,324

)

 Other

 

 

(85,213

)

 

 

49,158

 

 

 

45,696

 

Net
 cash flow provided by operating activities

 

 

234,930

 

 

 

562,897

 

 

 

560,740

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INVESTING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Construction
 expenditures

 

 

(199,283

)

 

 

(303,468

)

 

 

(334,933

)

Allowance
 for equity funds used during construction

 

 

5,426

 

 

 

7,417

 

 

 

11,666

 

Insurance
 proceeds

 

 

2,180

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

6,580

 

Nuclear
 fuel purchases

 

 

(44,529

)

 

 

(55,001

)

 

 

(72,493

)

Proceeds
 from sale/leaseback of nuclear fuel

 

 

72,843

 

 

 

44,554

 

 

 

54,362

 

Payment
 for purchase of plant

 

 

(74,818

)

 

 

(56,409

)

 

 

-

 

Investment
 in affiliates

 

 

160

 

 

 

(189,560

)

 

 

-

 

Payments
 to storm reserve escrow account

 

 

-

 

 

 

(85,306

)

 

 

-

 

Receipts
 from storm reserve escrow account

 

 

-

 

 

 

85,254

 

 

 

-

 

Proceeds
 from nuclear decommissioning trust fund sales

 

 

95,244

 

 

 

65,125

 

 

 

64,583

 

Investment
 in nuclear decommissioning trust funds

 

 

(105,167

)

 

 

(79,369

)

 

 

(78,720

)

Collections
 remitted to Texas transition charge account

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

(19,273

)

Change
 in money pool receivable - net

 

 

(38,542

)

 

 

43,920

 

 

 

(134,636

)

Changes
 in other investments - net

 

 

-

 

 

 

3,934

 

 

 

(1,553

)

Cash
 allocated to Entergy Texas in jurisdictional separation

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

(297,082

)

Other

 

 

-

 

 

 

(455

)

 

 

-

 

Net
 cash flow used in investing activities

 

 

(286,486

)

 

 

(519,364

)

 

 

(801,499

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FINANCING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Proceeds
 from the issuance of long-term debt

 

 

297,199

 

 

 

369,493

 

 

 

323,464

 

Retirement
 of long-term debt

 

 

(118,961

)

 

 

(366,683

)

 

 

(5,530

)

Proceeds
 from issuance of preferred membership interests

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

9,993

 

Redemption
 of preferred stock

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

(57,827

)

Dividends/distributions
 paid:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Common
 equity

 

 

(30,700

)

 

 

(104,200

)

 

 

(97,800

)

 Preferred
 membership interests

 

 

(825

)

 

 

(859

)

 

 

(3,886

)

Other

 

 

-

 

 

 

(17

)

 

 

-

 

Net
 cash flow provided by (used in) financing activities

 

 

146,713

 

 

 

(102,266

)

 

 

168,414

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net
 increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 

 

95,157

 

 

 

(58,733

)

 

 

(72,345

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 

 

49,303

 

 

 

108,036

 

 

 

180,381

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at end of period

 

$

144,460

 

 

$

49,303

 

 

$

108,036

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUPPLEMENTAL
 DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 paid/(received) during the period for:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Interest
 - net of amount capitalized

 

$

120,655

 

 

$

127,152

 

 

$

131,280

 

 Income
 taxes

 

$

60,594

 

 

$

(1,759

)

 

$

(5,938

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Noncash
 financing activities:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Repayment
 by Entergy Texas of assumed long-term debt

 

$

602,229

 

 

$

309,123

 

 

$

-

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

297

 

 

ENTERGY
 GULF STATES LOUISIANA, L.L.C.

 

BALANCE
 SHEETS

 

ASSETS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

December
 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT
 ASSETS

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Cash

 

$

139

 

 

$

22,671

 

 Temporary
 cash investments

 

 

144,321

 

 

 

26,632

 

 Total
 cash and cash equivalents

 

 

144,460

 

 

 

49,303

 

Accounts
 receivable:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Customer

 

 

38,633

 

 

 

69,264

 

 Allowance
 for doubtful accounts

 

 

(1,235

)

 

 

(1,230

)

 Associated
 companies

 

 

102,807

 

 

 

179,217

 

 Other

 

 

22,425

 

 

 

60,618

 

 Accrued
 unbilled revenues

 

 

56,425

 

 

 

50,272

 

 Total
 accounts receivable

 

 

219,055

 

 

 

358,141

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes

 

 

-

 

 

 

50,039

 

Fuel
 inventory - at average cost

 

 

29,298

 

 

 

33,751

 

Materials
 and supplies - at average cost

 

 

107,531

 

 

 

104,579

 

Deferred
 nuclear refueling outage costs

 

 

26,722

 

 

 

17,135

 

Debt
 assumption by Entergy Texas

 

 

167,742

 

 

 

100,509

 

Prepayments
 and other

 

 

42,146

 

 

 

6,381

 

TOTAL

 

 

736,954

 

 

 

719,838

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
 PROPERTY AND INVESTMENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Investment
 in affiliate preferred membership interests

 

 

189,400

 

 

 

189,560

 

Decommissioning
 trust funds

 

 

349,527

 

 

 

303,178

 

Non-utility
 property - at cost (less accumulated depreciation)

 

 

146,190

 

 

 

120,829

 

Other

 

 

11,342

 

 

 

13,245

 

TOTAL

 

 

696,459

 

 

 

626,812

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UTILITY
 PLANT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electric

 

 

6,855,075

 

 

 

6,402,668

 

Natural
 gas

 

 

113,970

 

 

 

106,125

 

Construction
 work in progress

 

 

84,161

 

 

 

201,544

 

Nuclear
 fuel under capital lease

 

 

156,996

 

 

 

140,689

 

Nuclear
 fuel

 

 

6,005

 

 

 

11,177

 

TOTAL
 UTILITY PLANT

 

 

7,216,207

 

 

 

6,862,203

 

Less
 - accumulated depreciation and amortization

 

 

3,714,199

 

 

 

3,560,458

 

UTILITY
 PLANT - NET

 

 

3,502,008

 

 

 

3,301,745

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DEFERRED
 DEBITS AND OTHER ASSETS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulatory
 assets:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Regulatory
 asset for income taxes - net

 

 

288,313

 

 

 

316,421

 

 Other
 regulatory assets

 

 

299,793

 

 

 

287,912

 

 Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

100,124

 

 

 

100,124

 

Long-term
 receivables

 

 

967

 

 

 

21,558

 

Debt
 assumption by Entergy Texas

 

 

-

 

 

 

669,462

 

Other

 

 

11,564

 

 

 

13,089

 

TOTAL

 

 

700,761

 

 

 

1,408,566

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
 ASSETS

 

$

5,636,182

 

 

$

6,056,961

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

298

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 GULF STATES LOUISIANA, L.L.C.

 

BALANCE
 SHEETS

 

LIABILITIES
 AND MEMBERS' EQUITY

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

December
 31,

 

 
 

 

 

2009

 

 

 

2008

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT
 LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Currently
 maturing long-term debt

 

$

11,975

 

 

$

219,470

 

Accounts
 payable:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

52,622

 

 

 

155,147

 

 Other

 

 

91,604

 

 

 

162,319

 

Customer
 deposits

 

 

45,645

 

 

 

40,484

 

Taxes
 accrued

 

 

-

 

 

 

418

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes

 

 

12,219

 

 

 

-

 

Interest
 accrued

 

 

24,709

 

 

 

30,112

 

Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

42,351

 

 

 

91,976

 

Obligations
 under capital leases

 

 

30,387

 

 

 

24,368

 

Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

8,021

 

 

 

7,479

 

Gas
 hedge contracts

 

 

263

 

 

 

20,184

 

System
 agreement cost equalization

 

 

10,000

 

 

 

67,000

 

Other

 

 

8,790

 

 

 

9,220

 

TOTAL

 

 

338,586

 

 

 

828,177

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NON-CURRENT
 LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes and taxes accrued

 

 

1,345,984

 

 

 

1,308,449

 

Accumulated
 deferred investment tax credits

 

 

88,246

 

 

 

91,634

 

Obligations
 under capital leases

 

 

126,226

 

 

 

116,321

 

Other
 regulatory liabilities

 

 

47,423

 

 

 

22,007

 

Decommissioning
 and asset retirement cost liabilities

 

 

321,158

 

 

 

222,909

 

Accumulated
 provisions

 

 

14,669

 

 

 

13,896

 

Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

234,473

 

 

 

188,390

 

Long-term
 debt

 

 

1,614,366

 

 

 

1,827,859

 

Long-term
 payables - associated companies

 

 

34,340

 

 

 

88,031

 

Other

 

 

28,952

 

 

 

17,145

 

TOTAL

 

 

3,855,837

 

 

 

3,896,641

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Commitments
 and Contingencies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MEMBERS'
 EQUITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Preferred
 membership interests without sinking fund

 

 

10,000

 

 

 

10,000

 

Members'
 equity

 

 

1,473,930

 

 

 

1,352,408

 

Accumulated
 other comprehensive loss

 

 

(42,171

)

 

 

(30,265

)

TOTAL

 

 

1,441,759

 

 

 

1,332,143

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
 LIABILITIES AND MEMBERS' EQUITY

 

$

5,636,182

 

 

$

6,056,961

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

299

 

 

ENTERGY
 GULF STATES LOUISIANA, L.L.C.

 

STATEMENTS
 OF MEMBERS' EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

MEMBERS'
 EQUITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Members'
 Equity - Beginning of period

 

$

1,352,408

 

 

 

 

 

$

1,312,701

 

 

 

 

 

$

2,225,465

 

 

 

 

 Add:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Net
 Income

 

 

153,047

 

 

$

153,047

 

 

 

144,767

 

 

$

144,767

 

 

 

192,779

 

 

$

192,779

 

 Other

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

479

 

 

 

 

 

 Total

 

 

153,047

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

144,767

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

193,258

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deduct:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Dividends/distributions
 declared:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Common
 equity

 

 

30,700

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

104,200

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

97,800

 

 

 

 

 

 Preferred
 membership interests

 

 

825

 

 

 

825

 

 

 

825

 

 

 

825

 

 

 

3,968

 

 

 

3,968

 

 Entergy
 Texas, Inc. paid-in capital

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

631,994

 

 

 

 

 

 Entergy
 Texas, Inc. shareholders' equity

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

49,452

 

 

 

 

 

 Entergy
 Texas, Inc. retained earnings

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

322,808

 

 

 

 

 

 Other

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

35

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 Total

 

 

31,525

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

105,060

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1,106,022

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Members'
 Equity - End of period

 

$

1,473,930

 

 

 

 

 

 

$

1,352,408

 

 

 

 

 

 

$

1,312,701

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ACCUMULATED
 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LOSS
 (Net of Taxes):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Balance
 at beginning of period:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities

 

$

(30,265

)

 

 

 

 

 

$

(22,934

)

 

 

 

 

 

$

(19,914

)

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities (net of tax expense
 (benefit)

 

 

 of
 ($13,111), ($3,068) and $4,550)

 

 

(11,906

)

 

 

(11,906

)

 

 

(7,331

)

 

 

(7,331

)

 

 

(3,020

)

 

 

(3,020

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Balance
 at end of period:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities

 

$

(42,171

)

 

 

 

 

 

$

(30,265

)

 

 

 

 

 

$

(22,934

)

 

 

 

 

Comprehensive
 Income

 

 

 

 

 

$

140,316

 

 

 

 

 

 

$

136,611

 

 

 

 

 

 

$

185,791

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

300

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 GULF STATES LOUISIANA, L.L.C.

 

SELECTED
 FINANCIAL DATA - FIVE-YEAR COMPARISON

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 

2006

 

 

2005

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Operating
 revenues (2)

 

$

1,844,386

 

 

$

2,733,365

 

 

$

3,534,612

 

 

$

3,679,573

 

 

$

3,367,171

 

Net
 Income (2)

 

$

153,047

 

 

$

144,767

 

 

$

192,779

 

 

$

211,988

 

 

$

206,497

 

Total
 assets (3)

 

$

5,636,182

 

 

$

6,056,961

 

 

$

6,072,691

 

 

$

7,786,677

 

 

$

7,809,497

 

Long-term
 obligations (1), (3)

 

$

1,740,592

 

 

$

1,944,180

 

 

$

1,756,087

 

 

$

2,417,480

 

 

$

2,392,804

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

2009

 

 

 

2008

 

 

 

2007

 

 

 

2006

 

 

 

2005

 

 
 

 

(Dollars
 In Millions)

 

Electric
 Operating Revenues (2):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Residential

 

$

393

 

 

$

554

 

 

$

1,042

 

 

$

1,122

 

 

$

960

 

 Commercial

 

 

354

 

 

 

520

 

 

 

817

 

 

 

883

 

 

 

734

 

 Industrial

 

 

383

 

 

 

672

 

 

 

1,035

 

 

 

1,150

 

 

 

1,014

 

 Governmental

 

 

18

 

 

 

25

 

 

 

45

 

 

 

49

 

 

 

41

 

 Total
 retail

 

 

1,148

 

 

 

1,771

 

 

 

2,939

 

 

 

3,204

 

 

 

2,749

 

 Sales
 for resale:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

475

 

 

 

643

 

 

 

233

 

 

 

145

 

 

 

186

 

 Non-associated
 companies

 

 

105

 

 

 

181

 

 

 

196

 

 

 

199

 

 

 

188

 

 Other

 

 

49

 

 

 

38

 

 

 

80

 

 

 

47

 

 

 

167

 

 Total

 

$

1,777

 

 

$

2,633

 

 

$

3,448

 

 

$

3,595

 

 

$

3,290

 

Billed
 Electric Energy Sales (GWh) (2):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Residential

 

 

5,090

 

 

 

4,888

 

 

 

10,215

 

 

 

10,110

 

 

 

10,024

 

 Commercial

 

 

5,058

 

 

 

4,973

 

 

 

8,980

 

 

 

8,838

 

 

 

8,486

 

 Industrial

 

 

7,601

 

 

 

8,416

 

 

 

15,012

 

 

 

15,065

 

 

 

14,967

 

 Governmental

 

 

213

 

 

 

215

 

 

 

448

 

 

 

454

 

 

 

441

 

 Total
 retail

 

 

17,962

 

 

 

18,492

 

 

 

34,655

 

 

 

34,467

 

 

 

33,918

 

 Sales
 for resale:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

7,084

 

 

 

6,490

 

 

 

2,488

 

 

 

3,259

 

 

 

3,213

 

 Non-associated
 companies

 

 

2,546

 

 

 

2,524

 

 

 

2,900

 

 

 

2,896

 

 

 

2,804

 

 Total

 

 

27,592

 

 

 

27,506

 

 

 

40,043

 

 

 

40,622

 

 

 

39,935

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1) Includes
 long-term debt (excluding currently maturing debt) and noncurrent capital
 lease obligations.

 

(2)
 Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's income statements for the years ended
 December 31, 2008 and 2009 reflect the effects of the separation of the
 Texas business. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's income statements for the
 years ended December 31, 2005, 2006, and 2007 include the operations of
 Entergy Texas.

 

(3)
 Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's balance sheets as of December 31, 2009,
 2008, and 2007 reflect the effects of the separation of the Texas
 business. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's balance sheets as of
 December 31, 2005 and 2006 include the operations of Entergy
 Texas.

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

301

 

 

 

ENTERGY
LOUISIANA, LLC

MANAGEMENT'S
FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Results of
Operations

Net
Income

2009 Compared to
2008

Net income increased $75.3 million
primarily due to a lower effective income tax rate, higher other income, higher
net revenue, and lower other operation and maintenance expenses, partially
offset by higher depreciation and amortization expenses.

2008 Compared to
2007

Net income increased $14.2 million
primarily due to lower other operation and maintenance expenses, higher other
income, and a lower effective income tax rate, offset by lower net revenue and
higher depreciation and amortization expenses.

Net
Revenue

2009 Compared to
2008

Net revenue consists of operating
revenues net of: 1) fuel, fuel-related expenses, and gas purchased for resale,
2) purchased power expenses, and 3) other regulatory charges
(credits). Following is an analysis of the change in net revenue
comparing 2009 to 2008.

 
 

 
 

Amount

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

 
 

 
 

 
 

2008
 net revenue

 
 

$959.2 

Volume/weather

 
 

36.7 

Retail
 electric price

 
 

(19.2)

Other

 
 

3.3 

2009
 net revenue

 
 

$980.0 

The volume/weather variance is
primarily due to an increase of 504 GWh in billed electricity usage in all
sectors, an increase in unbilled sales volume, including the effect of Hurricane
Gustav and Hurricane Ike which decreased sales volume in 2008, and the effect of
more favorable weather.

The
retail electric price variance is primarily due to:

 
 

·

a
 credit passed on to customers as a result of the Act 55 storm cost
 financing;

 
 

·

a
 net decrease in the formula rate plan effective August 2008 to remove
 interim storm cost recovery upon the Act 55 financing of storm costs as
 well as the storm damage accrual. A portion of the decrease is
 offset in other operation and maintenance expenses. See Note 2
 to the financial statements for further discussion of the formula rate
 plan; and

 
 

·

a
 formula rate plan provision of $12.9 million recorded in the third quarter
 2009 for refunds made to customers in November 2009 in accordance with a
 settlement approved by the LPSC. See Note 2 to the financial
 statements for further discussion of the
 settlement.

The
decrease was offset by an interruptible load provision of $13.4 million recorded
in 2008 for rate refunds that occurred in August and September 2009 and formula
rate plan increases effective November 2009.

 

302

 

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Refer to
"
MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – 
Hurricane
Rita and Hurricane Katrina
" and Note 2 to the financial statements for a
discussion of the interim recovery of storm costs and the Act 55 storm cost
financing.

Gross
operating revenues, fuel and purchased power expenses, and other regulatory
charges (credits)

Gross operating revenues decreased
primarily due to a decrease of $763.4 million in fuel cost recovery revenues due
to lower fuel rates and a decrease of $108.1 million in rider
revenues. The decrease was partially offset by an increase of $36.7
million related to volume/weather, as discussed above.

Fuel and
purchased power expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in the average
market prices of natural gas and purchased power and a decrease in the recovery
from customers of deferred fuel costs.

Other
regulatory charges decreased primarily due to the amortization of deferred
capacity charges, which ceased in August 2009, as a result of the May 2006
formula rate plan filing with the LPSC, the recognition of interim storm cost
recoveries that ceased in July 2008 with the Act 55 financing of storm costs,
and the refunds of Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita insurance proceeds
occurring over a twelve-month period. See Note 2 to the financial
statements for a discussion of the formula rate plan, the interim recovery of
storm costs, and the Act 55 storm cost financing.

2008 Compared to
2007

Net revenue consists of operating
revenues net of: 1) fuel, fuel-related expenses, and gas purchased for resale,
2) purchased power expenses, and 3) other regulatory
charges. Following is an analysis of the change in net revenue
comparing 2008 to 2007.

 
 

 
 

Amount

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

 
 

 
 

 
 

2007
 net revenue

 
 

$991.1 

Retail
 electric price

 
 

(17.1)

Purchased
 power capacity

 
 

(12.0)

Net
 wholesale revenue

 
 

(7.4)

Other

 
 

4.6 

2008
 net revenue

 
 

$959.2 

The retail electric price variance is
primarily due to the cessation of the interim storm recovery through the formula
rate plan upon the Act 55 financing of storm costs and a credit passed on to
customers as a result of the Act 55 storm cost financing, partially offset by
increases in the formula rate plan effective October 2007. Refer to
"
Hurricane Rita and
Hurricane Katrina
" and "
State and
Local Rate Regulation
" below for a discussion of the interim recovery of
storm costs, the Act 55 storm cost financing, and the formula rate plan
filing.

The purchased power capacity variance
is due to the amortization of deferred capacity costs effective September 2007
as a result of the formula rate plan filing in May 2007. Purchased
power capacity costs are offset in base revenues due to a base rate increase
implemented to recover incremental deferred and ongoing purchased power capacity
charges. See 
"
State and
Local Rate Regulation
" below for a discussion of the formula rate plan
filing.

The net wholesale revenue variance is
primarily due to provisions recorded for potential rate refunds related to the
treatment of interruptible load in pricing Entergy System affiliate
sales.

 

 

303

 

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Gross
operating revenues and fuel and purchased power expenses

Gross operating revenues increased
primarily due to an increase of $364.7 million in fuel cost recovery revenues
due to higher fuel rates offset by decreased usage. The increase was
partially offset by a decrease of $56.8 million in gross wholesale revenue due
to a decrease in System Agreement rough production cost equalization
credits.

Fuel and purchased power expenses
increased primarily due to increases in the average market prices of natural gas
and purchased power, partially offset by a decrease in the recovery from
customers of deferred fuel costs.

Other
Income Statement Variances

2009 Compared to
2008

Other operation and maintenance
expenses decreased primarily due to a decrease of $6.5 million in
payroll-related costs and a decrease of $6.4 million in loss reserves in 2009,
including a decrease in the storm damage reserve. The decrease was
partially offset by an increase of $9.0 million in nuclear expenses due to
higher nuclear labor and contract costs.

Depreciation and amortization expenses
increased primarily due to an increase in plant in service.

Other
income increased primarily due to:

· 

an
 increase of $25 million in distributions earned on preferred membership
 interests purchased from Entergy Holdings Company with the proceeds
 received from the Act 55 storm cost financing. See "
MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL
 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – 
Hurricane
 Rita and Hurricane Katrina
" and Note 2 to the financial statements
 for a discussion of the Act 55 storm cost financing;
 and

· 

an
 increase in the allowance for equity funds used during construction due to
 more construction work in progress throughout
 2009.

Interest
and other charges increased slightly primarily due to the issuance of $300
million of 6.50% Series first mortgage bonds in August 2008 and the issuance of
$400 million of 5.40% Series first mortgage bonds in November 2009,
substantially offset by an increase in the allowance for borrowed funds used
during construction due to more construction work in progress in
2009.

2008 Compared to
2007

Other
operation and maintenance expenses decreased primarily due to:

· 

a
 decrease of $9.3 million in nuclear spending due to a prior year
 non-refueling outage;

· 

a
 decrease of $8.6 million in payroll-related
 costs;

· 

a
 decrease of $8.1 million in loss reserves for storm damage in 2008 because
 of completion of the Act 55 storm cost financing;
 and

· 

a
 decrease of $5.7 million in customer service costs primarily as a result
 of write-offs in 2007 of uncollectible customer
 accounts.

The
decrease was partially offset by an increase of $4.5 million in transmission
spending due to additional costs related to compliance, substation maintenance,
and line and vegetation maintenance and an increase of $4.3 million in fossil
expenses due to a fossil plant maintenance outage in 2008.

Depreciation
and amortization expenses increased primarily due to:

· 

a
 revision in the third quarter 2007 related to depreciation on storm
 cost-related assets. Recovery of the cost of those assets will
 now be through the Act 55 financing of storm costs as approved by the LPSC
 in the third quarter 2007. See "
Hurricane Rita and
 Hurricane Katrina
" below for a discussion of the Act 55 storm cost
 financing;

 

 

 

 

304

 

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

· 

a
 revision in the fourth quarter 2008 of estimated depreciable lives
 involving certain intangible assets in accordance with formula rate plan
 treatment; and

· 

an
 increase in plant in service.

 
 

Other
income increased primarily due to:

· 

distributions
 of $29.5 million earned on preferred stock purchased from Entergy Holdings
 Company with the proceeds received from the Act 55 Storm Cost
 Financings;

· 

interest
 earned on the deferred fuel
balance;

· 

carrying
 charges on storm restoration costs approved by the LPSC;
 and

· 

an
 increase in the allowance for equity funds used during construction due to
 more construction work in progress in
2008.

See
"
Hurricane Rita and
Hurricane Katrina
" below for a discussion of the Act 55 storm cost
financing.

Income
Taxes

The effective income tax rates for
2009, 2008, and 2007 were 16.2%, 31.0%, and 36.8%, respectively. The
decline in the rate for 2009 is primarily due to the reallocation of Entergy
Corporation consolidated tax benefits based on the partial settlement of IRS
audits of prior tax years, the exclusion of dividend income from Entergy
Louisiana's preferred membership interest in Entergy Holdings Company, LLC, and
the flow-through of the equity component of AFUDC. See Note 3 to the
financial statements for a reconciliation of the federal statutory rate of 35.0%
to the effective income tax rate and for a discussion of the IRS
audits.

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Cash
Flow

Cash flows for the years ended December
31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 were as follows:

 
 

 
 

 
 

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

2007

 
 

 
 

 
 

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 
 

$138,918 

 
 

$300 

 
 

$2,743 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 flow provided by (used in):

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Operating
 activities

 
 

87,879 

 
 

1,082,592 

 
 

353,438 

 
 

Investing
 activities

 
 

(436,251)

 
 

(1,170,994)

 
 

(297,460)

 
 

Financing
 activities

 
 

361,303 

 
 

227,020 

 
 

(58,421)

 
 

 Net
 increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 
 

12,931 

 
 

138,618 

 
 

(2,443)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at end of period

 
 

$151,849 

 
 

$138,918 

 
 

$300 

Operating
Activities

Cash flow provided by operating
activities decreased $994.7 million primarily due to storm cost proceeds of $679
million received in 2008 from the LURC as a result of the Act 55 storm cost
financing and income tax payments of $223.6 million in 2009 compared to income
tax refunds of $12.7 million in 2008. See Note 3 to the financial
statements for a discussion of the tax payments in 2009.

Cash flow
provided by operating activities increased $729.2 million in 2008 compared to
2007 primarily due to storm cost proceeds of $679 million received from the LURC
as a result of the Act 55 storm cost financing and income tax refunds of $12.7
million in 2008 compared to income tax payments of $119.1 million in
2007. The increase was partially offset by a lower amount of fuel
costs recovered in 2008 than in 2007. See "
Hurricane Rita and Hurricane
Katrina
" below for a discussion of the storm cost
financings.

 

 

305

 

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Investing
Activities

Net cash flow used in investing
activities decreased $734.7 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due
to:

· 

the
 investment in 2008 of $545 million in affiliate securities as a result of
 the Act 55 storm cost financing. See "
MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL
 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS – 
Hurricane
 Rita and Hurricane Katrina
" and Note 2 to the financial statements
 for a discussion of the Act 55 storm cost
 financing;

· 

higher
 construction expenditures in 2008 due to Hurricane Gustav and Hurricane
 Ike;

· 

the
 suspension of the Little Gypsy repowering project in 2009. See
 "
Little Gypsy
 Repowering Project
" below for a discussion of the
 suspension;

· 

lower
 transmission construction expenditures in 2009;
 and

· 

money
 pool activity.

The
decrease was partially offset by increased nuclear construction expenditures
primarily due to the Waterford 3 steam generator replacement project, the dry
fuel storage project, security upgrades, and the reactor coolant pump upgrades
project.

Decreases in Entergy Louisiana's
receivable from the money pool are a source of cash flow, and Entergy
Louisiana's receivable from the money pool decreased $8.4 million in 2009
compared to increasing $61.2 million in 2008. The money pool is an
inter-company borrowing arrangement designed to reduce the Utility subsidiaries'
need for external short-term borrowings.

Net cash flow used in investing
activities increased $873.5 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due
to:

· 

the
 investment of $545 million in affiliate securities as a result of the Act
 55 storm cost financings. See "
Hurricane Rita and
 Hurricane Katrina
" below for a discussion of the storm cost
 financings;

· 

increased
 construction expenditures in 2008 due to Hurricane Gustav and Hurricane
 Ike, the Little Gypsy Unit 3 repowering project, and various nuclear
 projects; and

· 

money
 pool activity.

Increases in Entergy Louisiana's
receivable from the money pool are a use of cash flow, and Entergy Louisiana's
receivable from the money pool increased by $61.2 million in 2008.

Financing
Activities

Entergy Louisiana's cash flow provided
by financing activities increased $134.3 million in 2009 compared to 2008
primarily due to the issuance of $400 million of 5.40% Series first mortgage
bonds in November 2009 compared to the issuance of $300 million of 6.50% Series
first mortgage bonds in August 2008 and the repurchase in 2008 of $60 million of
Auction Rate governmental bonds, partially offset by an increase of $20.6
million in common equity distributions paid in 2009.

Entergy
Louisiana's financings activities provided $227.0 million of cash in 2008
compared to using $58.4 million of cash in 2007 primarily due to the issuance of
$300 million of 6.50% Series first mortgage bonds in August 2008 and money pool
activity, partially offset by the repurchase, prior to maturity, of $60 million
of Auction Rate governmental bonds, which are being held for remarketing at a
later date.

Decreases in Entergy Louisiana's
payable to the money pool are a use of cash flow, and Entergy Louisiana's
payable to the money pool decreased $2.8 million in 2008 and $51.3 million in
2007.

See Note 5 to the financial statements
for details of long-term debt.

 

 

306

 

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Capital
Structure

Entergy
Louisiana's capitalization is balanced between equity and debt, as shown in the
following table. The increase in the debt to capital for Entergy
Louisiana as of December 31, 2009 is primarily due to the issuance of $400
million of 5.40% Series first mortgage bonds in November 2009.

 
 

 
 

December
 31,

 2009

 
 

December
 31,

2008

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Net
 debt to net capital

 
 

47.8%

 
 

43.6%

Effect
 of subtracting cash from debt

 
 

2.1%

 
 

2.5%

Debt
 to capital

 
 

49.9%

 
 

46.1%

Net debt
consists of debt less cash and cash equivalents. Debt consists of
notes payable, capital lease obligations, and long-term debt, including the
currently maturing portion. Capital consists of debt and members'
equity. Net capital consists of capital less cash and cash
equivalents. Entergy Louisiana uses the net debt to net capital ratio
in analyzing its financial condition and believes it provides useful information
to its investors and creditors in evaluating Entergy Louisiana's financial
condition.

Uses
of Capital

Entergy Louisiana requires capital
resources for:

· 

construction
 and other capital investments;

· 

debt
 and preferred equity maturities;

· 

working
 capital purposes, including the financing of fuel and purchased power
 costs; and

· 

distribution
 and interest payments.

Following
are the amounts of Entergy Louisiana's planned construction and other capital
investments, existing debt and lease obligations (includes estimated interest
payments), and other purchase obligations:

 
 

2010

 
 

2011-2012

 
 

2013-2014

 
 

After
 2014

 
 

Total

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

Planned
 construction and

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 capital
 investment (1)

$503

 
 

$1,280

 
 

N/A

 
 

N/A

 
 

$1,783

 
 

Long-term
 debt (2)

$329

 
 

$250

 
 

$332

 
 

$2,056

 
 

$2,967

 
 

Operating
 leases

$9

 
 

$15

 
 

$11

 
 

$6

 
 

$41

 
 

Purchase
 obligations (3)

$601

 
 

$1,302

 
 

$716

 
 

$4,389

 
 

$7,008

 
 

Nuclear
 fuel lease obligations (4)

$57

 
 

$65

 
 

N/A

 
 

N/A

 
 

$122

 
 

(1)

Includes
 approximately $152 million annually for maintenance capital, which is
 planned spending on routine capital projects that are necessary to support
 reliability of service, equipment or systems and to support normal
 customer growth.

(2)

Includes
 estimated interest payments. Long-term debt is discussed in
 Note 5 to the financial statements.

(3)

Purchase
 obligations represent the minimum purchase obligation or cancellation
 charge for contractual obligations to purchase goods or
 services. For Entergy Louisiana, almost all of the total
 consists of unconditional fuel and purchased power obligations, including
 its obligations under the Vidalia purchased power agreement and the Unit
 Power Sales Agreement, both of which are discussed in Note 8 to the
 financial statements.

(4)

It
 is expected that additional financing under the lease will be arranged as
 needed to acquire additional fuel, to pay interest, and to pay maturing
 debt. If such additional financing cannot be arranged, however,
 Entergy Louisiana must repurchase sufficient nuclear fuel to allow the
 lessor to meet its obligations.

In
addition to the contractual obligations given above, Entergy Louisiana currently
expects to contribute approximately $27.1 million to its pension plans and
approximately $9.9 million to other postretirement plans in 2010; although the
required pension contributions will not be known with more certainty until the
January 1, 2010 valuations are completed by April 1, 2010. Also,
guidance pursuant to the Pension Protection Act of 2006 rules, effective for the
2008 plan year and beyond, continues to evolve, be interpreted through
technical

 

 

 

307

 

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

corrections
bills, and discussed within the industry and by congressional
lawmakers. Any changes to the Pension Protection Act as a result of
these discussions and efforts may affect the level of Entergy Louisiana’s
pension contributions in the future.

Also, in
addition to the contractual obligations, Entergy Louisiana has $282.1 million of
unrecognized tax benefits and interest net of unused tax attributes
 
for which the timing of
payments beyond 12 months cannot be reasonably estimated due to uncertainties in
the timing of effective settlement of tax positions. See Note 3 to
the financial statements for additional information regarding unrecognized tax
benefits.

The planned capital investment estimate
for Entergy Louisiana reflects capital required to support existing business and
customer growth, including the purchase of Acadia Unit 2 and the replacement of
the Waterford 3 steam generators, which are discussed below, and dry cask spent
fuel storage. Entergy's Utility supply plan initiative will continue
to seek to transform its generation portfolio with new or repowered generation
resources. Opportunities resulting from the supply plan initiative,
including new projects or the exploration of alternative financing sources,
could result in increases or decreases in the capital expenditure estimates
given above. The estimated capital expenditures are subject to
periodic review and modification and may vary based on the ongoing effects of
regulatory constraints, environmental compliance, market volatility, economic
trends, business restructuring, and the ability to access
capital. Management provides more information on long-term debt and
preferred stock maturities in Notes 5 and 6 to the financial
statements.

Acadia Unit 2 Purchase
Agreement

In October 2009 Entergy Louisiana
announced that it signed an agreement to acquire Unit 2 of the Acadia Energy
Center, a 580 MW generating unit located near Eunice, La., from Acadia Power
Partners, LLC, an independent power producer. The Acadia Energy
Center, which entered commercial service in 2002, consists of two combined-cycle
gas-fired generating units, each nominally rated at 580 MW. Entergy
Louisiana proposes to acquire 100 percent of Acadia Unit 2 and a 50 percent
ownership interest in the facility’s common assets for approximately $300
million. In a separate transaction, Cleco Power is acquiring Acadia
Unit 1 and the other 50 percent interest in the facility’s common
assets. Upon closing the transaction, Cleco Power will serve as
operator for the entire facility. Entergy Louisiana has committed to
sell one third of the output of Unit 2 to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana in
accordance with terms and conditions detailed under the existing Entergy System
Agreement.

Entergy
Louisiana's purchase is contingent upon, among other things, obtaining necessary
approvals, including full cost recovery, from various federal and state
regulatory and permitting agencies. Closing is expected to occur in
late 2010 or early 2011. Entergy Louisiana and Acadia Power Partners
also have entered into a purchased power agreement for 100 percent of the output
of Acadia Unit 2 that is expected to commence on May 1, 2010 and is set to
expire at the closing of the acquisition transaction. Entergy
Louisiana has filed with the LPSC for approval of the transaction, and no party
filed an opposition to the purchase power agreement and it has been forwarded to
the LPSC for its review. The parties have agreed to a procedural
schedule for the acquisition that would lead to LPSC consideration of the matter
at its January 2011 meeting and includes a hearing before the ALJ in September
2010.

Waterford 3 Steam Generator
Replacement Project

Entergy
Louisiana plans to replace the Waterford 3 steam generators, along with the
reactor vessel closure head and control element drive mechanisms, in
2011. Replacement of these components is common to pressurized water
reactors throughout the nuclear industry. The nuclear industry continues
to address susceptibility to stress corrosion cracking of certain materials
associated with these components within the reactor coolant system. The
issue is applicable to Waterford 3 and is managed in accordance with standard
industry practices and guidelines. Routine inspections of the steam
generators during Waterford 3's Fall 2006 refueling outage identified additional
degradation of certain tube spacer supports in the steam generators that
required repair beyond that anticipated prior to the outage. Corrective
measures were successfully implemented to permit continued operation of the
steam generators. While potential future replacement of these
components had been contemplated, additional steam generator tube and component
degradation necessitates replacement of

 

 

 

308

 

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

the steam
generators as soon as reasonably achievable. The earliest the new steam
generators can be manufactured and delivered for installation is
2011. A mid-cycle outage performed in 2007 supports Entergy
Louisiana's 2011 replacement strategy. The reactor vessel head and
control element drive mechanisms will be replaced at the same time, utilizing
the same reactor building construction opening that is necessary for the steam
generator replacement. 

In June
2008, Entergy Louisiana filed with the LPSC for approval of the project,
including full cost recovery. Following discovery and the filing of
testimony by the LPSC staff and an intervenor, the parties entered into a
stipulated settlement of the proceeding. The LPSC unanimously
approved the settlement in November 2008. The settlement resolved the
following issues: 1) the accelerated degradation of the steam generators is not
the result of any imprudence on the part of Entergy Louisiana; 2) the decision
to undertake the replacement project at the current estimated cost of $511
million is in the public interest, is prudent, and would serve the public
convenience and necessity; 3) the scope of the replacement project is in the
public interest; 4) undertaking the replacement project at the target
installation date during the 2011 refueling outage is in the public interest;
and 5) the jurisdictional costs determined to be prudent in a future prudence
review are eligible for cost recovery, either in an extention or renewal of the
formula rate plan or in a full base rate case including necessary proforma
adjustments. Upon completion of the replacement project, the LPSC
will undertake a prudence review with regard to the following aspects of the
replacement project: 1) project management; 2) cost controls; 3) success in
achieving stated objectives; 4) the costs of the replacement project; and 5) the
outage length and replacement power costs.

In July 2009, the LPSC granted Entergy
Louisiana's motion to dismiss, without prejudice, its application seeking
recovery of cash earnings on construction work in progress (CWIP) for the steam
generator replacement project, acknowledging Entergy Louisiana's right, at any
time, to seek cash earnings on CWIP if Entergy Louisiana believes that
circumstances or projected circumstances are such that a request for cash
earnings on CWIP is merited. The cash earnings on CWIP application
had been consolidated with a similar request for the Little Gypsy repowering
project, which was also dismissed in response to the same motion.

Entergy
Louisiana estimates that it will spend approximately $511 million on this
project, including $299 million over the 2010-2011 period.

Little Gypsy Repowering
Project

In April
2007, Entergy Louisiana announced that it intended to pursue the solid fuel
repowering of a 538 MW unit at its Little Gypsy plant, and Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana filed subsequently with the LPSC seeking certification to participate
in one-third of the project. Petroleum coke and coal would be the unit's
primary fuel sources. In July 2007, Entergy Louisiana filed with the LPSC
for approval of the repowering project. In addition to seeking a
finding that the project is in the public interest, the filing with the LPSC
asked that Entergy Louisiana be allowed to recover a portion of the project's
financing costs during the construction period.

On March 11, 2009, the LPSC voted in
favor of a motion directing Entergy Louisiana to temporarily suspend the
repowering project and, based upon an analysis of the project's economic
viability, to make a recommendation regarding whether to proceed with the
project. This action was based upon a number of factors including the
recent decline in natural gas prices, as well as environmental concerns, the
unknown costs of carbon legislation and changes in the capital/financial
markets.
 
On
April 1, 2009, Entergy Louisiana complied with the LPSC's directive and
recommended that the project be suspended for an extended period of time of
three years or more. Entergy Louisiana estimated that its total costs
for the project, if suspended, including actual spending to date and estimated
contract cancellation costs, would be approximately $300
million. Entergy Louisiana had obtained all major environmental
permits required to begin construction. A longer-term suspension
places these permits at risk and may adversely affect the project's economics
and technological feasibility. On May 22, 2009, the LPSC issued an
order declaring that Entergy Louisiana's decision to place the Little Gypsy
project into a longer-term suspension of three years or more is in the public
interest and prudent. In October 2009, Entergy Louisiana made a
filing with the LPSC seeking permission to cancel the project and seeking
recovery over a five-year period of the project costs. The parties to
the proceeding agreed to a procedural schedule that results in a hearing in
October 2010. Entergy Louisiana currently estimates that its total
costs for the project, if canceled, will be approximately $215 million, of which
approximately $193 million was incurred through December 31, 2009.

 

 

309

 

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

New Nuclear
Development

Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and
Entergy Louisiana provided public notice to the LPSC of their intention to make
a filing pursuant to the LPSC's general order that governs the development of
new nuclear generation in Louisiana. The project option being
developed by the companies is for new nuclear generation at River
Bend. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana, together
with Entergy Mississippi, have been engaged in the development of options to
construct new nuclear generation at the River Bend and Grand Gulf
sites. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana are
leading the development at River Bend, and Entergy Mississippi is leading the
development at Grand Gulf. This project is in the early stages, and
several issues remain to be addressed over time before significant additional
capital would be committed to this project. In 2010, Entergy Gulf
States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana each paid for and will recognize on its
books $24.9 million in costs associated with the development of new nuclear
generation at the River Bend site; these costs previously had been recorded on
the books of Entergy New Nuclear Development, LLC, a System Energy
subsidiary. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana will
share costs going forward on a 50/50 basis, which reflects each company's
current participation level in the project. In response to the
companies' previous notice, dated August 10, 2009, the LPSC opened a
docket. A procedural schedule will be established after the companies
file the certification application referred to in the notice.

Sources
of Capital

Entergy Louisiana's sources to meet its
capital requirements include:

· 

internally
 generated funds;

· 

cash
 on hand;

· 

debt
 or preferred membership interest issuances;
and

· 

bank
 financing under new and existing
facilities.

Entergy Louisiana may refinance or
redeem debt and preferred membership interests prior to maturity, to the extent
market conditions and interest and distribution rates are
favorable.

All debt and common and preferred
membership interest issuances by Entergy Louisiana require prior regulatory
approval. Preferred membership interest and debt issuances are also
subject to issuance tests set forth in corporate charters, bond indentures, and
other agreements. Entergy Louisiana has sufficient capacity under
these tests to meet its foreseeable capital needs.

Entergy
Louisiana's receivables from or (payables to) the money pool were as follows as
of December 31 for each of the following years:

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

2007

 
 

2006

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$52,807

 
 

$61,236

 
 

($2,791)

 
 

($54,041)

See Note
4 to the financial statements for a description of the money pool.

Entergy
Louisiana has a credit facility in the amount of $200 million scheduled to
expire in August 2012. No borrowings were outstanding under the
credit facility as of December 31, 2009.

Entergy Louisiana obtained short-term
borrowing authorization from the FERC under which it may borrow through October
2011, up to the aggregate amount, at any one time outstanding, of $250
million. See Note 4 to the financial statements for further
discussion of Entergy Louisiana's short-term borrowing
limits. Entergy Louisiana has also obtained an order from the FERC
authorizing long-term securities issuances through July 2011.

 

 

310

 

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Hurricane Gustav and
Hurricane Ike

In September 2008, Hurricane Gustav
(and, to a much lesser extent, Hurricane Ike) caused catastrophic damage to
Entergy Louisiana's service territory. The storms resulted in
widespread power outages, significant damage to distribution, transmission, and
generation infrastructure, and the loss of sales during the power
outages. On October 9, 2008, Entergy Louisiana drew all of its $134
million funded storm reserve. On October 15, 2008, the LPSC approved
Entergy Louisiana's request to defer and accrue carrying costs on unrecovered
storm expenditures during the period the company seeks regulatory
recovery. The approval was without prejudice to the ultimate
resolution of the total amount of prudently incurred storm costs or final
carrying costs rate.

Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and
Entergy Louisiana filed their Hurricane Gustav and Hurricane Ike storm cost
recovery case with the LPSC in May 2009. In September 2009, Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana made a supplemental filing to, among
other things, recommend recovery of the costs and replenishment of the storm
reserves by Louisiana Act 55 (passed in 2007) financing. Entergy Gulf
States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana recovered their costs from Hurricane
Katrina and Hurricane Rita primarily by Act 55 financing, as discussed
below. On December 30, 2009, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and
Entergy Louisiana entered into a stipulation agreement with the LPSC Staff that,
if approved, provides for total recoverable costs of approximately $234 million
for Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and $394 million for Entergy
Louisiana. Under this stipulation, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana
agrees not to recover $4.4 million and Entergy Louisiana agrees not to recover
$7.2 million of their storm restoration spending. The stipulation
also permits replenishing Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's storm reserve in the
amount of $90 million and Entergy Louisiana's storm reserve in the amount of
$200 million when Act 55 financing is accomplished. The parties to
the proceeding have agreed to a procedural schedule that includes March/April
2010 hearing dates for both the recoverability and the method of recovery
proceedings.

Hurricane Rita and Hurricane
Katrina

In August and September 2005, Hurricane
Katrina and Hurricane Rita, along with extensive flooding that resulted from
levee breaks in and around Entergy Louisiana's service territory, caused
catastrophic damage. The storms and flooding resulted in widespread
power outages; significant damage to distribution, transmission, and generation
infrastructure; and the temporary loss of sales and customers due to mandatory
evacuations and destruction of homes and businesses due to wind, rain, and
extended periods of flooding. Entergy pursued a broad range of
initiatives to recover storm restoration and business continuity costs and
incremental losses. Initiatives included obtaining reimbursement of
certain costs covered by insurance and pursuing recovery through existing or new
rate mechanisms regulated by the FERC and local regulatory bodies, in
combination with securitization.

Insurance
Claims

 Entergy
has received a total of $317 million as of December 31, 2009 on its Hurricane
Katrina and Hurricane Rita insurance claims, including the settlements of its
Hurricane Katrina claims with each of its two excess insurers. Of the
$317 million received, $45 million was allocated to Entergy
Louisiana. Entergy has substantially completed its insurance
recoveries related to Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita.

Storm
Cost Financings

In March 2008, Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, and the Louisiana Utilities Restoration
Corporation (LURC), an instrumentality of the State of Louisiana, filed at the
LPSC an application requesting that the LPSC grant financing orders authorizing
the financing of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana storm
costs, storm reserves, and issuance costs pursuant to Act 55 of the Louisiana
Legislature (Act 55 financings). The Act 55 financings are expected
to produce additional customer benefits as compared to Act 64 traditional
securitization. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana also
filed an application requesting LPSC approval for ancillary issues including the
mechanism to flow charges and savings to customers via a Storm Cost Offset
rider. On April 3, 2008, the Louisiana State Bond Commission granted
preliminary approval for the Act 55 financings. On April 8, 2008, the
Louisiana Public Facilities Authority (LPFA), which is the issuer of the bonds
pursuant to the Act 55 financings, approved requests for the Act 55

 

 

 

311

 

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

financings. 
On April 10, 2008, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana and the
LPSC Staff filed with the LPSC an uncontested stipulated settlement that
includes Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana's proposals under
the Act 55 financings, which includes a commitment to pass on to customers a
minimum of $10 million and $30 million of customer benefits, respectively,
through prospective annual rate reductions of $2 million and $6 million for five
years. On April 16, 2008, the LPSC approved the settlement and issued
two financing orders and one ratemaking order intended to facilitate
implementation of the Act 55 financings. In May 2008, the Louisiana State
Bond Commission granted final approval of the Act 55 financings.

On July 29, 2008, the LPFA issued
$687.7 million in bonds under the aforementioned Act 55. From the
$679 million of bond proceeds loaned by the LPFA to the LURC, the LURC deposited
$152 million in a restricted escrow account as a storm damage reserve for
Entergy Louisiana and transferred $527 million directly to Entergy
Louisiana. From the bond proceeds received by Entergy Louisiana from
the LURC, Entergy Louisiana invested $545 million, including $17.8 million that
was withdrawn from the restricted escrow account as approved by the April 16,
2008 LPSC orders, in exchange for 5,449,861.85 Class A preferred, non-voting,
membership interest units of Entergy Holdings Company LLC, a company
wholly-owned and consolidated by Entergy, that carry a 10% annual distribution
rate. Distributions are payable quarterly commencing on September 15,
2008 and have a liquidation price of $100 per unit. The preferred
membership interests are callable at the option of Entergy Holdings Company LLC
after ten years under the terms of the LLC agreement. The terms of
the membership interests include certain financial covenants to which Entergy
Holdings Company LLC is subject, including the requirement to maintain a net
worth of at least $1 billion.

Entergy Louisiana does not report the
bonds on its balance sheet because the bonds are the obligation of the LPFA, and
there is no recourse against Entergy Louisiana in the event of a bond
default.

State and Local Rate
Regulation

The rates that Entergy Louisiana
charges for its services significantly influence its financial position, results
of operations, and liquidity. Entergy Louisiana is regulated and the
rates charged to its customers are determined in regulatory
proceedings. A governmental agency, the LPSC, is primarily
responsible for approval of the rates charged to customers.

Entergy Louisiana made a rate filing
with the LPSC requesting a base rate increase in January 2004. In May
2005 the LPSC approved a settlement that included the adoption of a three-year
formula rate plan, the terms of which included an ROE mid-point of 10.25% for
the initial three-year term of the plan and permit Entergy Louisiana to recover
incremental capacity costs outside of a traditional base rate
proceeding. Under the formula rate plan, over- and under-earnings
outside an allowed regulatory range of 9.45% to 11.05% will be allocated 60% to
customers and 40% to Entergy Louisiana. The initial formula rate plan
filing was made in May 2006. As discussed below the formula rate plan
has been extended, with return on common equity provisions consistent with
previously approved provisions, to cover the 2008, 2009, and 2010 test
years.

In October 2009 the LPSC approved a
settlement that resolves Entergy Louisiana's 2006 and 2007 test year
filings. The settlement provides for a new formula rate plan for the
2008, 2009, and 2010 test years. Entergy Louisiana is permitted,
effective with the November 2009 billing cycle, to reset its rates to achieve a
10.25% return on equity for the 2008 test year. 10.25% is the target
midpoint return on equity for the new formula rate plan, with an earnings
bandwidth of +/- 80 basis points (9.45% - 11.05%). The rate reset, a
$2.5 million increase that includes a $16.3 million cost of service adjustment
less a $13.8 million net reduction for decreased capacity costs and a base rate
reclassification, was implemented for the November 2009 billing cycle, and the
rate reset will be subject to refund pending review of the 2008 test year filing
that was made on October 21, 2009. The settlement does not allow
recovery through the formula rate plan of most of Entergy Louisiana's costs
associated with Entergy's stock option plan. Pursuant to the
settlement Entergy Louisiana refunded to its customers $12.9 million, which
includes interest, in the November 2009 billing cycle. The LPSC Staff
and one intervenor filed comments on the 2008 test year filing in January
2010. Entergy Louisiana has until March 2010 to provide an initial
response to the proposed adjustments and discovery is
ongoing. Entergy Louisiana will implement any agreed changes by March
15, 2010. A procedural schedule to address any contested issues would
be set after March 15, 2010.

 

 

312

 

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

In December 2009, Entergy Louisiana
filed an application seeking LPSC approval for a $10.3 million revenue
requirement to provide supplemental funding for the decommissioning trust
maintained for Waterford 3, in response to an NRC notification of a projected
shortfall of decommissioning funding assurance. Currently, Entergy
Louisiana has $2.2 million in annual retail rates for decommissioning
funding.

In May 2008, Entergy Louisiana made its
formula rate plan filing with the LPSC for the 2007 test year, seeking an $18.4
million rate increase, comprised of $12.6 million of recovery of incremental and
deferred capacity costs and $5.8 million based on a cost of service revenue
deficiency related to continued lost contribution to fixed costs associated with
the loss of customers due to Hurricane Katrina. In August 2008,
Entergy Louisiana implemented a $43.9 million formula rate plan decrease to
remove interim storm cost recovery and to reduce the storm damage
accrual. Entergy Louisiana then implemented a $16.9 million formula
rate plan increase, subject to refund, effective the first billing cycle in
September 2008, comprised of $12.6 million of recovery of incremental and
deferred capacity costs and $4.3 million based on a cost of service
deficiency.

In May 2007, Entergy Louisiana made its
formula rate plan filing with the LPSC for the 2006 test year, indicating a 7.6%
earned return on common equity. In September 2007, Entergy Louisiana
modified its formula rate plan filing to reflect its implementation of certain
adjustments proposed by the LPSC Staff in its review of Entergy Louisiana's
original filing with which Entergy Louisiana agreed, and to reflect its
implementation of an $18.4 million annual formula rate plan increase comprised
of (1) a $23.8 million increase representing 60% of Entergy Louisiana's revenue
deficiency, and (2) a $5.4 million decrease for reduced incremental and deferred
capacity costs. In October 2007, Entergy Louisiana implemented a $7.1
million formula rate plan decrease that was due primarily to the
reclassification of certain franchise fees from base rates to collection via a
line item on customer bills pursuant to an LPSC Order.

In May 2006, Entergy Louisiana made its
formula rate plan filing with the LPSC for the 2005 test
year. Entergy Louisiana modified the filing in August 2006 to reflect
a 9.45% return on equity which is within the allowed bandwidth. The
modified filing includes an increase of $24.2 million for interim recovery of
storm costs from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and a $119.2 million rate increase
to recover LPSC-approved incremental deferred and ongoing capacity
costs. The filing requested recovery of approximately $50 million for
the amortization of capacity deferrals over a three-year period, including
carrying charges, and approximately $70 million for ongoing capacity
costs. The increase was implemented, subject to refund, with the
first billing cycle of September 2006. Entergy Louisiana subsequently
updated its formula rate plan rider to reflect adjustments proposed by the LPSC
Staff with which it agrees. The adjusted return on equity of 9.56%
remains within the allowed bandwidth. Ongoing and deferred
incremental capacity costs were reduced to $118.7 million. The
updated formula rate plan rider was implemented, subject to refund, with the
first billing cycle of October 2006. An uncontested stipulated
settlement was filed in February 2008 that left the current base rates in place,
and the LPSC approved the settlement in March 2008. In the settlement
Entergy Louisiana agreed to credit customers $7.2 million, plus $0.7 million of
interest, for customer contributions to the Central States Compact in Nebraska
that was never completed and agreed to a one-time $2.6 million deduction from
the deferred capacity cost balance. The credit, for which Entergy
Louisiana had previously recorded a provision, was made in May
2008.

In
addition to rate proceedings, Entergy Louisiana's fuel costs recovered from
customers are subject to regulatory scrutiny. This regulatory risk
represents Entergy Louisiana's largest potential exposure to price changes in
the commodity markets.

Entergy Louisiana's retail rate matters
and proceedings, including fuel cost recovery-related issues, are discussed
further in Note 2 to the financial statements.

 

 

313

 

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Federal
Regulation

Interruptible
Load Proceeding

See Entergy Corporation and
Subsidiaries' "
MANAGEMENT'S
FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS - 
System Agreement
Proceedings
 - Interruptible Load Proceeding." In October 2009,
the LPSC issued an order approving the flow through to retail rates of the
LPSC-jurisdictional portion of the payments and credits resulting from the
FERC's orders that had not yet been flowed through to retail rates, which
required a net refund to retail customers of $17.6 million, including
interest. Of this amount, $5.4 million was refunded subject to
adjustment in the event that future action by the FERC or the D.C. Circuit Court
of Appeals results in a reversal or change in the amount of the refunds ordered
by the FERC in September 2008.

System
Agreement Proceedings

See "
System Agreement
Proceedings
" in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries' Management's
Discussion and Analysis for discussion of the proceeding at the FERC involving
the System Agreement and of other related proceedings.

Transmission

See "
Independent Coordinator of
Transmission
" in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries' Management's
Discussion and Analysis for discussion.

Industrial and Commercial
Customers

Entergy Louisiana's large industrial
and commercial customers continually explore ways to reduce their energy
costs. In particular, cogeneration is an option available to a
portion of Entergy Louisiana's industrial customer base. Entergy
Louisiana responds by working with industrial and commercial customers and
negotiating electric service contracts to provide competitive rates that match
specific customer needs and load profiles. Entergy Louisiana actively
participates in economic development, customer retention, and reclamation
activities to increase industrial and commercial demand, from both new and
existing customers. Entergy Louisiana does not currently expect
additional significant losses to cogeneration because of the current economics
of the electricity markets and Entergy Louisiana's marketing efforts in
retaining industrial customers.

Nuclear
Matters

Entergy
Louisiana owns and operates, through an affiliate, the Waterford 3 nuclear power
plant. Entergy Louisiana is, therefore, subject to the risks related
to owning and operating a nuclear plant. These include risks from the
use, storage, handling and disposal of high-level and low-level radioactive
materials, regulatory requirement changes, including changes resulting from
events at other plants, limitations on the amounts and types of insurance
commercially available for losses in connection with nuclear operations, and
technological and financial uncertainties related to decommissioning nuclear
plants at the end of their licensed lives, including the sufficiency of funds in
decommissioning trusts. In the event of an unanticipated early
shutdown of Waterford 3, Entergy Louisiana may be required to provide additional
funds or credit support to satisfy regulatory requirements for
decommissioning.

The
nuclear industry continues to address susceptibility to stress corrosion
cracking of certain materials associated with components within the reactor
coolant system. The issue is applicable to Waterford 3 and is managed in
accordance with standard industry practices and guidelines. As discussed
above in more detail, Entergy Louisiana plans to replace the Waterford 3 steam
generators, along with the reactor vessel closure head and control element drive
mechanisms, in 2011.

 

 

314

 

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Environmental
Risks

Entergy Louisiana's facilities and
operations are subject to regulation by various governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and
hazardous and solid wastes, and other environmental
matters. Management believes that Entergy Louisiana is in substantial
compliance with environmental regulations currently applicable to its facilities
and operations. Because environmental regulations are subject to
change, future compliance costs cannot be precisely estimated.

Critical Accounting
Estimates

The
preparation of Entergy Louisiana's financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to apply
appropriate accounting policies and to make estimates and judgments that can
have a significant effect on reported financial position, results of operations,
and cash flows. Management has identified the following accounting
policies and estimates as critical because they are based on assumptions and
measurements that involve a high degree of uncertainty, and the potential for
future changes in the assumptions and measurements that could produce estimates
that would have a material effect on the presentation of Entergy Louisiana's
financial position or results of operations.

Nuclear
Decommissioning Costs

See "
Nuclear Decommissioning Costs
"
in the "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
" section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
Management's Discussion and Analysis for discussion of the estimates inherent in
accounting for nuclear decommissioning costs.

Unbilled
Revenue

As
discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, Entergy Louisiana records an
estimate of the revenues earned for energy delivered since the latest customer
billing. Each month the estimated unbilled revenue amounts are
recorded as revenue and a receivable, and the prior month's estimate is
reversed. The difference between the estimate of the unbilled
receivable at the beginning of the period and the end of the period is the
amount of unbilled revenue recognized during the period. The estimate
recorded is primarily based upon an estimate of customer usage during the
unbilled period and the billed price to customers in that
month. Therefore, revenue recognized may be affected by the estimated
price and usage at the beginning and end of each period, in addition to changes
in certain components of the calculation.

Qualified
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

Entergy
sponsors qualified defined benefit pension plans which cover substantially all
employees. Additionally, Entergy currently provides postretirement
health care and life insurance benefits for substantially all employees who
reach retirement age while still working for Entergy. Entergy's
reported costs of providing these benefits, as described in Note 11 to the
financial statements, are impacted by numerous factors including the provisions
of the plans, changing employee demographics, and various actuarial
calculations, assumptions, and accounting mechanisms. See the "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
" section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
Management's Discussion and Analysis for further discussion. Because
of the complexity of these calculations, the long-term nature of these
obligations, and the importance of the assumptions utilized, Entergy's estimate
of these costs is a critical accounting estimate.

 

 

315

 

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Cost
Sensitivity

The
following chart reflects the sensitivity of qualified pension cost to changes in
certain actuarial assumptions (dollars in thousands):

 

 

Actuarial
 Assumption

 
 

 

Change
 in

Assumption

 
 

 

Impact
 on 2009

Qualified
 Pension Cost

 
 

Impact
 on Projected

Qualified
 Benefit

Obligation

 
 

 
 

Increase/(Decrease)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Discount
 rate

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$1,298

 
 

$13,578

Rate
 of return on plan assets

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$964

 
 

-

Rate
 of increase in compensation

 
 

0.25%

 
 

$646

 
 

$3,136

The
following chart reflects the sensitivity of postretirement benefit cost to
changes in certain actuarial assumptions (dollars in thousands):

 

 

Actuarial
 Assumption

 
 

 

Change
 in

Assumption

 
 

 

Impact
 on 2009

Postretirement
 Benefit Cost

 
 

Impact
 on Accumulated

Postretirement
 Benefit

Obligation

 
 

 
 

Increase/(Decrease)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Health
 care cost trend

 
 

0.25%

 
 

$673

 
 

$3,576

Discount
 rate

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$
387

 
 

$4,016

Each
fluctuation above assumes that the other components of the calculation are held
constant.

Costs and
Funding

Total
qualified pension cost for Entergy Louisiana in 2009 was $6.2
million. Entergy Louisiana anticipates 2010 qualified pension cost to
be $14.6 million. Entergy Louisiana contributed $7.6 million to its pension
plans in 2009 and anticipates funding approximately $27.1 million in 2010
although the required pension contributions will not be known with more
certainty until the January 1, 2010 valuations are completed by April 1,
2010. Also, guidance pursuant to the Pension Protection Act of 2006
rules, effective for the 2008 plan year and beyond, continues to evolve, be
interpreted through technical corrections bills, and discussed within the
industry and by congressional lawmakers. Any changes to the Pension
Protection Act as a result of these discussions and efforts may affect the level
of Entergy Louisiana’s pension contributions in the future.

 Total
postretirement health care and life insurance benefit costs for Entergy
Louisiana in 2009 were $16.8 million, including $2.8 million in savings due to
the estimated effect of future Medicare Part D subsidies. Entergy
Louisiana expects 2010 postretirement health care and life insurance benefit
costs to approximate $17.8 million, including $3.1 million in savings due to the
estimated effect of future Medicare Part D subsidies. Entergy
Louisiana expects to contribute approximately $9.9 million to its other
postretirement plans in 2010.

New Accounting
Pronouncements

See "
New
Accounting Pronouncements
" section of Entergy Corporation and
Subsidiaries Management's Discussion and Analysis for a discussion of new
accounting pronouncements.

 

316

 

 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Members of

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Baton
Rouge, Louisiana

We have
audited the accompanying balance sheets of Entergy Louisiana, LLC (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 and the related statements of
income, members’ equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows (pages 318
through 322 and applicable items in pages 63 through 193) for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2009. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our
opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Entergy Louisiana, LLC as of December 31, 2009 and 2008,
and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in 
Internal Control – Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 24, 2010 expressed an
unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

317

 

ENTERGY
 LOUISIANA, LLC

 

INCOME
 STATEMENTS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 REVENUES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electric

 

$

2,183,586

 

 

$

3,051,294

 

 

$

2,737,552

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 EXPENSES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Operation
 and Maintenance:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Fuel,
 fuel-related expenses, and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 gas
 purchased for resale

 

 

428,904

 

 

 

1,048,502

 

 

 

887,749

 

 Purchased
 power

 

 

782,235

 

 

 

1,010,804

 

 

 

814,779

 

 Nuclear
 refueling outage expenses

 

 

21,895

 

 

 

19,638

 

 

 

17,664

 

 Other
 operation and maintenance

 

 

401,898

 

 

 

408,489

 

 

 

427,241

 

Decommissioning

 

 

21,377

 

 

 

19,907

 

 

 

18,530

 

Taxes
 other than income taxes

 

 

66,627

 

 

 

63,184

 

 

 

60,293

 

Depreciation
 and amortization

 

 

203,791

 

 

 

197,909

 

 

 

178,841

 

Other
 regulatory charges (credits) - net

 

 

(7,561

)

 

 

32,763

 

 

 

43,949

 

TOTAL

 

 

1,919,166

 

 

 

2,801,196

 

 

 

2,449,046

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 INCOME

 

 

264,420

 

 

 

250,098

 

 

 

288,506

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
 INCOME

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Allowance
 for equity funds used during construction

 

 

27,990

 

 

 

18,439

 

 

 

11,119

 

Interest
 and dividend income

 

 

75,522

 

 

 

46,370

 

 

 

8,901

 

Miscellaneous
 - net

 

 

(4,425

)

 

 

(3,703

)

 

 

(3,497

)

TOTAL

 

 

99,087

 

 

 

61,106

 

 

 

16,523

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INTEREST
 AND OTHER CHARGES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Interest
 on long-term debt

 

 

96,353

 

 

 

83,003

 

 

 

74,021

 

Other
 interest - net

 

 

7,318

 

 

 

11,307

 

 

 

11,708

 

Allowance
 for borrowed funds used during construction

 

 

(18,059

)

 

 

(11,297

)

 

 

(7,531

)

TOTAL

 

 

85,612

 

 

 

83,013

 

 

 

78,198

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INCOME
 BEFORE INCOME TAXES

 

 

277,895

 

 

 

228,191

 

 

 

226,831

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Income
 taxes

 

 

45,050

 

 

 

70,648

 

 

 

83,494

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NET
 INCOME

 

 

232,845

 

 

 

157,543

 

 

 

143,337

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Preferred
 distribution requirements and other

 

 

6,950

 

 

 

6,950

 

 

 

6,950

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EARNINGS
 APPLICABLE TO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMON
 EQUITY

 

$

225,895

 

 

$

150,593

 

 

$

136,387

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

318

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 LOUISIANA, LLC

 

STATEMENTS
 OF CASH FLOWS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net
 income

 

$

232,845

 

 

$

157,543

 

 

$

143,337

 

Adjustments
 to reconcile net income to net cash flow provided by operating
 activities:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Other
 regulatory charges (credits) - net

 

 

(7,561

)

 

 

32,763

 

 

 

43,949

 

 Depreciation,
 amortization, and decommissioning

 

 

225,168

 

 

 

217,816

 

 

 

197,371

 

 Deferred
 income taxes, investment tax credits, and non-current taxes
 accrued

 

 

(183,872

)

 

 

123,219

 

 

 

(26,634

)

 Changes
 in working capital:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Receivables

 

 

193,181

 

 

 

(111,579

)

 

 

(65,082

)

 Accounts
 payable

 

 

(25,074

)

 

 

9,344

 

 

 

(74,923

)

 Taxes
 accrued

 

 

300

 

 

 

17,937

 

 

 

1,519

 

 Interest
 accrued

 

 

(5,325

)

 

 

8,541

 

 

 

(750

)

 Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

(89,930

)

 

 

42,779

 

 

 

95,094

 

 Other
 working capital accounts

 

 

(168,238

)

 

 

116,565

 

 

 

46,418

 

 Provision
 for estimated losses and reserves

 

 

1,455

 

 

 

1,511

 

 

 

(5,393

)

 Changes
 in other regulatory assets

 

 

(84,503

)

 

 

412,561

 

 

 

(23,829

)

 Changes
 in pension and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

13,664

 

 

 

136,897

 

 

 

(860

)

 Other

 

 

(14,231

)

 

 

(83,305

)

 

 

23,221

 

Net
 cash flow provided by operating activities

 

 

87,879

 

 

 

1,082,592

 

 

 

353,438

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INVESTING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Construction
 expenditures

 

 

(467,519

)

 

 

(584,394

)

 

 

(321,506

)

Allowance
 for equity funds used during construction

 

 

27,990

 

 

 

18,439

 

 

 

11,119

 

Insurance
 proceeds

 

 

153

 

 

 

11,317

 

 

 

10,065

 

Nuclear
 fuel purchases

 

 

(93,272

)

 

 

(71,328

)

 

 

(3,131

)

Proceeds
 from the sale/leaseback of nuclear fuel

 

 

93,672

 

 

 

70,928

 

 

 

14,306

 

Investment
 in affiliates

 

 

160

 

 

 

(545,154

)

 

 

-

 

Payments
 to storm reserve escrow account

 

 

-

 

 

 

(134,423

)

 

 

-

 

Receipts
 from storm reserve escrow account

 

 

-

 

 

 

133,622

 

 

 

-

 

Proceeds
 from nuclear decommissioning trust fund sales

 

 

47,520

 

 

 

23,497

 

 

 

23,848

 

Investment
 in nuclear decommissioning trust funds

 

 

(54,379

)

 

 

(31,262

)

 

 

(32,161

)

Change
 in money pool receivable - net

 

 

8,429

 

 

 

(61,236

)

 

 

-

 

Changes
 in other investments - net

 

 

995

 

 

 

(1,000

)

 

 

-

 

Net
 cash flow used in investing activities

 

 

(436,251

)

 

 

(1,170,994

)

 

 

(297,460

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FINANCING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Proceeds
 from the issuance of long-term debt

 

 

395,450

 

 

 

296,761

 

 

 

-

 

Additional
 equity from parent

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

1,119

 

Retirement
 of long-term debt

 

 

(6,597

)

 

 

(60,000

)

 

 

-

 

Change
 in money pool payable - net

 

 

-

 

 

 

(2,791

)

 

 

(51,250

)

Dividends/distributions
 paid:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Common
 equity

 

 

(20,600

)

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 Preferred
 membership interests

 

 

(6,950

)

 

 

(6,950

)

 

 

(8,069

)

Other

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

(221

)

Net
 cash flow provided by (used in) financing activities

 

 

361,303

 

 

 

227,020

 

 

 

(58,421

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net
 increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 

 

12,931

 

 

 

138,618

 

 

 

(2,443

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 

 

138,918

 

 

 

300

 

 

 

2,743

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at end of period

 

$

151,849

 

 

$

138,918

 

 

$

300

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUPPLEMENTAL
 DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 paid/(received) during the period for:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Interest
 - net of amount capitalized

 

$

105,586

 

 

$

82,449

 

 

$

82,584

 

 Income
 taxes

 

$

223,610

 

 

$

(12,718

)

 

$

119,080

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

319

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 LOUISIANA, LLC

 

BALANCE
 SHEETS

 

ASSETS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

December
 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT
 ASSETS

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Cash

 

$

160

 

 

$

-

 

 Temporary
 cash investments

 

 

151,689

 

 

 

138,918

 

 Total
 cash and cash equivalents

 

 

151,849

 

 

 

138,918

 

Accounts
 receivable:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Customer

 

 

56,978

 

 

 

127,765

 

 Allowance
 for doubtful accounts

 

 

(1,312

)

 

 

(1,698

)

 Associated
 companies

 

 

110,425

 

 

 

244,575

 

 Other

 

 

9,174

 

 

 

11,271

 

 Accrued
 unbilled revenues

 

 

72,550

 

 

 

67,512

 

 Total
 accounts receivable

 

 

247,815

 

 

 

449,425

 

Note
 receivable - Entergy New Orleans

 

 

9,353

 

 

 

-

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes

 

 

-

 

 

 

66,229

 

Materials
 and supplies - at average cost

 

 

127,812

 

 

 

128,388

 

Deferred
 nuclear refueling outage costs

 

 

36,783

 

 

 

19,962

 

Gas
 hedge contracts

 

 

3,409

 

 

 

-

 

Prepayments
 and other

 

 

10,633

 

 

 

10,046

 

TOTAL

 

 

587,654

 

 

 

812,968

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
 PROPERTY AND INVESTMENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Investment
 in affiliate preferred membership interests

 

 

544,994

 

 

 

545,154

 

Decommissioning
 trust funds

 

 

209,070

 

 

 

180,862

 

Non-utility
 property - at cost (less accumulated depreciation)

 

 

1,124

 

 

 

1,306

 

Note
 receivable - Entergy New Orleans

 

 

-

 

 

 

9,353

 

Other

 

 

810

 

 

 

1,805

 

TOTAL

 

 

755,998

 

 

 

738,480

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UTILITY
 PLANT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electric

 

 

7,190,609

 

 

 

6,734,732

 

Property
 under capital lease

 

 

262,111

 

 

 

256,348

 

Construction
 work in progress

 

 

509,667

 

 

 

602,070

 

Nuclear
 fuel under capital lease

 

 

122,011

 

 

 

74,197

 

TOTAL
 UTILITY PLANT

 

 

8,084,398

 

 

 

7,667,347

 

Less
 - accumulated depreciation and amortization

 

 

3,370,225

 

 

 

3,245,701

 

UTILITY
 PLANT - NET

 

 

4,714,173

 

 

 

4,421,646

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DEFERRED
 DEBITS AND OTHER ASSETS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulatory
 assets:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Regulatory
 asset for income taxes - net

 

 

132,086

 

 

 

107,596

 

 Other
 regulatory assets

 

 

477,020

 

 

 

515,053

 

 Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

67,998

 

 

 

67,998

 

Long-term
 receivables

 

 

1,500

 

 

 

1,209

 

Other

 

 

18,762

 

 

 

20,218

 

TOTAL

 

 

697,366

 

 

 

712,074

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
 ASSETS

 

$

6,755,191

 

 

$

6,685,168

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

320

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 LOUISIANA, LLC

 

BALANCE
 SHEETS

 

LIABILITIES
 AND MEMBERS' EQUITY

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

December
 31,

 

 
 

 

 

2009

 

 

 

2008

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT
 LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Currently
 maturing long-term debt

 

$

222,326

 

 

$

-

 

Accounts
 payable:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

56,057

 

 

 

67,465

 

 Other

 

 

141,311

 

 

 

254,055

 

Customer
 deposits

 

 

82,864

 

 

 

78,401

 

Taxes
 accrued

 

 

25,993

 

 

 

25,693

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes

 

 

13,349

 

 

 

-

 

Interest
 accrued

 

 

32,955

 

 

 

38,280

 

Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

1,633

 

 

 

91,563

 

Obligations
 under capital leases

 

 

56,528

 

 

 

38,362

 

Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

9,153

 

 

 

8,935

 

System
 agreement cost equalization

 

 

54,000

 

 

 

156,000

 

Gas
 hedge contracts

 

 

-

 

 

 

26,668

 

Other

 

 

9,831

 

 

 

33,841

 

TOTAL

 

 

706,000

 

 

 

819,263

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NON-CURRENT
 LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes and taxes accrued

 

 

1,703,272

 

 

 

1,940,065

 

Accumulated
 deferred investment tax credits

 

 

79,650

 

 

 

82,848

 

Obligations
 under capital leases

 

 

65,483

 

 

 

35,843

 

Other
 regulatory liabilities

 

 

45,711

 

 

 

43,562

 

Decommissioning

 

 

298,216

 

 

 

276,839

 

Accumulated
 provisions

 

 

20,301

 

 

 

19,916

 

Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

296,347

 

 

 

282,683

 

Long-term
 debt

 

 

1,557,226

 

 

 

1,387,473

 

Other

 

 

71,176

 

 

 

88,838

 

TOTAL

 

 

4,137,382

 

 

 

4,158,067

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Commitments
 and Contingencies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MEMBERS'
 EQUITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Preferred
 membership interests without sinking fund

 

 

100,000

 

 

 

100,000

 

Members'
 equity

 

 

1,837,348

 

 

 

1,632,053

 

Accumulated
 other comprehensive loss

 

 

(25,539

)

 

 

(24,215

)

TOTAL

 

 

1,911,809

 

 

 

1,707,838

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
 LIABILITIES AND MEMBERS' EQUITY

 

$

6,755,191

 

 

$

6,685,168

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

321

 

 

ENTERGY
 LOUISIANA, LLC

 

STATEMENTS
 OF MEMBERS' EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MEMBERS'
 EQUITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Members'
 Equity, January 1

 

$

1,632,053

 

 

 

 

 

$

1,481,509

 

 

 

 

 

$

1,344,003

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Add:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Net
 income

 

 

232,845

 

 

$

232,845

 

 

 

157,543

 

 

$

157,543

 

 

 

143,337

 

 

$

143,337

 

 Additional
 equity from parent

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1,119

 

 

 

 

 

 Total

 

 

232,845

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

157,543

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

144,456

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deduct:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Dividends/distribution
 declared:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Common
 equity

 

 

20,600

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 Preferred
 membership interests

 

 

6,950

 

 

 

6,950

 

 

 

6,950

 

 

 

6,950

 

 

 

6,950

 

 

 

6,950

 

 Other

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

49

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

 

 

 Total

 

 

27,550

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6,999

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6,950

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Members'
 Equity, December 31

 

$

1,837,348

 

 

 

 

 

 

$

1,632,053

 

 

 

 

 

 

$

1,481,509

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ACCUMULATED
 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INCOME (Net
 of Taxes):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Balance
 at beginning of period:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 other comprehensive income

 

$

(24,215

)

 

 

 

 

 

$

(27,968

)

 

 

 

 

 

$

(25,695

)

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities (net of tax expense
 (benefit)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 of
 ($1,692), $2,835, and ($6,703))

 

 

(1,324

)

 

 

(1,324

)

 

 

3,753

 

 

 

3,753

 

 

 

(2,273

)

 

 

(2,273

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Balance
 at end of period:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities

 

$

(25,539

)

 

 

 

 

 

$

(24,215

)

 

 

 

 

 

$

(27,968

)

 

 

 

 

Comprehensive
 Income

 

 

 

 

 

$

224,571

 

 

 

 

 

 

$

154,346

 

 

 

 

 

 

$

134,114

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

322

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 LOUISIANA, LLC

 

SELECTED
 FINANCIAL DATA - FIVE-YEAR COMPARISON

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 

2006

 

 

2005

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Operating
 revenues

 

$

2,183,586

 

 

$

3,051,294

 

 

$

2,737,552

 

 

$

2,451,258

 

 

$

2,650,181

 

Net
 Income

 

$

232,845

 

 

$

157,543

 

 

$

143,337

 

 

$

137,618

 

 

$

128,082

 

Total
 assets

 

$

6,775,191

 

 

$

6,685,168

 

 

$

5,723,121

 

 

$

5,654,842

 

 

$

5,855,053

 

Long-term
 obligations (1)

 

$

1,622,709

 

 

$

1,423,316

 

 

$

1,149,478

 

 

$

1,191,044

 

 

$

1,208,140

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1) Includes
 long-term debt (excluding currently maturing debt) and noncurrent capital
 lease obligations.

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

2009

 

 

 

2008

 

 

 

2007

 

 

 

2006

 

 

 

2005

 

 
 

 

(Dollars
 In Millions)

Electric
 Operating Revenues:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Residential

 

$

669

 

 

$

967

 

 

$

854

 

 

$

797

 

 

$

828

 

 Commercial

 

 

456

 

 

 

660

 

 

 

578

 

 

 

533

 

 

 

539

 

 Industrial

 

 

664

 

 

 

1,062

 

 

 

872

 

 

 

809

 

 

 

834

 

 Governmental

 

 

36

 

 

 

51

 

 

 

43

 

 

 

40

 

 

 

41

 

 Total
 retail

 

 

1,825

 

 

 

2,740

 

 

 

2,347

 

 

 

2,179

 

 

 

2,242

 

 Sales
 for resale:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

252

 

 

 

249

 

 

 

310

 

 

 

215

 

 

 

339

 

 Non-associated
 companies

 

 

5

 

 

 

12

 

 

 

8

 

 

 

12

 

 

 

14

 

 Other

 

 

102

 

 

 

50

 

 

 

73

 

 

 

45

 

 

 

55

 

 Total

 

$

2,184

 

 

$

3,051

 

 

$

2,738

 

 

$

2,451

 

 

$

2,650

 

Billed
 Electric Energy Sales (GWh):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Residential

 

 

8,684

 

 

 

8,487

 

 

 

8,646

 

 

 

8,558

 

 

 

8,559

 

 Commercial

 

 

5,867

 

 

 

5,784

 

 

 

5,848

 

 

 

5,714

 

 

 

5,554

 

 Industrial

 

 

13,386

 

 

 

13,162

 

 

 

13,209

 

 

 

12,770

 

 

 

12,348

 

 Governmental

 

 

459

 

 

 

459

 

 

 

446

 

 

 

441

 

 

 

428

 

 Total
 retail (2)

 

 

28,396

 

 

 

27,892

 

 

 

28,149

 

 

 

27,483

 

 

 

26,889

 

 Sales
 for resale:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

1,513

 

 

 

2,028

 

 

 

2,299

 

 

 

2,369

 

 

 

2,451

 

 Non-associated
 companies

 

 

109

 

 

 

205

 

 

 

112

 

 

 

101

 

 

 

109

 

 Total

 

 

30,018

 

 

 

30,125

 

 

 

30,560

 

 

 

29,953

 

 

 

29,449

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2) 2006
 billed electric energy sales includes 96 GWh of billings related to 2005
 deliveries that were billed in 2006 because of billing delays following
 Hurricane Katrina, which results in an increase of 402 GWh in 2006, or
 1.5% and an increase of 762 in 2007, or 2.8%.

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

323

 

 

 

ENTERGY
MISSISSIPPI, INC.

MANAGEMENT'S
FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Results of
Operations

Net
Income

2009 Compared to
2008

Net income increased $17.9 million
primarily due to higher net revenue, partially offset by higher interest expense
and higher depreciation and amortization expenses.

2008 Compared to
2007

Net income decreased $12.4 million
primarily due to higher other operation and maintenance expenses, lower other
income, and higher depreciation and amortization expenses, partially offset by
higher net revenue.

Net
Revenue

2009 Compared to
2008

Net revenue consists of operating
revenues net of: 1) fuel, fuel-related expenses, and gas purchased for resale,
2) purchased power expenses, and 3) other regulatory charges
(credits). Following is an analysis of the change in net revenue
comparing 2009 to 2008.

 
 

 
 

Amount

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

 
 

 
 

 
 

2008
 net revenue

 
 

$498.8 

Retail
 electric price

 
 

18.9 

Net
 wholesale revenue

 
 

7.6 

Reserve
 equalization

 
 

5.9 

Other

 
 

2.7 

2009
 net revenue

 
 

$533.9 

The retail electric price variance is
primarily due to a formula rate plan increase effective July 2009 and an
increase in Attala power plant costs that are recovered through the power
management rider. The formula rate plan filing is discussed further in "
State and
Local Rate Regulation
" below. The net income effect of the Attala power
plant costs recovery is limited to a portion representing an allowed return on
equity with the remainder offset by Attala power plant costs in other operation
and maintenance expenses, depreciation expenses, and taxes other than income
taxes.

The net wholesale revenue variance is
primarily due to a change in a contract with a wholesale customer that increased
its monthly demand charge and an increased net balance on joint account sales as
a result of lower fuel prices in 2009.

The reserve equalization variance is
primarily due to increased reserve equalization revenue as a result of changes
in the Entergy System generation mix compared to the same period in
2008.

Gross
operating revenues, fuel and purchased power expenses, and other regulatory
charges (credits)

Gross operating revenues decreased
primarily due to a decrease of $254.6 million in fuel cost recovery revenues due
to lower fuel rates and decreased usage and a decrease of $52.1 million in gross
wholesale revenues

 

324

 

Entergy
Mississippi, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

primarily
due to a decrease in volume as a result of less energy available for resale
sales, partially offset by an increase of $20.4 million in power management
rider revenue.

Fuel and purchased power expenses
decreased primarily due to decreases in the average market prices of natural gas
and purchased power.

Other regulatory charges (credits)
decreased primarily due to decreased recovery of costs associated with the power
management recovery rider and decreased recovery through the Grand Gulf Rider of
Grand Gulf capacity costs due to lower rates and decreased usage. There is no
material effect on net income due to quarterly adjustments to the power
management recovery rider and annual adjustments to the Grand Gulf rider. See
Note 2 to the financial statements for additional information regarding the
power management recovery rider and the Grand Gulf Rider.

2008 Compared to
2007

Net revenue consists of operating
revenues net of: 1) fuel, fuel-related expenses, and gas purchased for resale,
2) purchased power expenses, and 3) other regulatory
charges. Following is an analysis of the change in net revenue
comparing 2008 to 2007.

 
 

 
 

Amount

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

 
 

 
 

 
 

2007
 net revenue

 
 

$486.9 

Attala
 costs

 
 

9.9 

Rider
 revenue

 
 

6.0 

Base
 revenue

 
 

5.1 

Reserve
 equalization

 
 

(2.4)

Net
 wholesale revenue

 
 

(4.0)

Other

 
 

(2.7)

2008
 net revenue

 
 

$498.8 

The Attala costs variance is primarily
due to an increase in the Attala power plant costs that are recovered through
the power management rider. The net income effect of this recovery in
limited to a portion representing an allowed return on equity with the remainder
offset by Attala power plant costs in other operation and maintenance expenses,
depreciation expenses, and taxes other than income taxes.

The rider revenue variance is the
result of a storm damage rider that became effective in October 2007. The
establishment of this rider results in an increase in rider revenue and a
corresponding increase in other operation and maintenance expense for the storm
reserve with no effect on net income.

The base revenue variance is primarily
due to a formula rate plan increase effective July 2007. The formula
rate plan filing is discussed further in "
State and
Local Rate Regulation
" below.

The reserve equalization variance is
primarily due to changes in the Entergy System generation mix compared to the
same period in 2007.

The net wholesale revenue variance is
primarily due to lower profit on joint account sales and reduced capacity
revenue from the Municipal Energy Agency of Mississippi.

Gross
operating revenues, fuel and purchased power expenses, and other regulatory
charges

Gross operating revenues increased
primarily due to an increase of $152.5 million in fuel cost recovery revenues
due to higher fuel rates, partially offset by a decrease of $43 million in gross
wholesale revenues due to a decrease in net generation and purchases in excess
of decreased net area demand resulting in less energy available for resale sales
coupled with a decrease in system agreement remedy receipts.

 

 

325

 

Entergy
Mississippi, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Fuel and purchased power expenses
increased primarily due to increases in the average market prices of natural gas
and purchased power, partially offset by decreased demand and decreased recovery
from customers of deferred fuel costs.

Other regulatory charges increased
primarily due to increased recovery through the Grand Gulf rider of Grand Gulf
capacity costs due to higher rates and increased recovery of costs associated
with the power management recovery rider. There is no material effect on net
income due to quarterly adjustments to the power management recovery rider. See
Note 2 to the financial statements for additional information regarding the
power management recovery rider and the Grand Gulf Rider.

Other
Income Statement Variances

2009 Compared to
2008

Depreciation and amortization expenses
increased primarily due to an increase in plant in service.

Other income increased primarily due to
the gain recorded in 2009 on the sale of utility property, offset by a potential
buyer's forfeiture of a $1.7 million deposit in June 2008 for an option to
purchase non-utility property.

Interest expense increased primarily
due to the issuance of $150 million of 6.64% Series first mortgage bonds in June
2009.

2008 Compared to
2007

Other operation and maintenance
expenses increased primarily due to:

· 

an
 increase of $8.6 million in loss reserves in 2008 compared to 2007,
 including the effect of the storm damage rider implemented in October
 2007;

· 

an
 increase of $3.5 million in fossil plant expenses due to increased
 outages, higher plant maintenance costs, and environmental
 costs;

· 

an
 increase of $2.8 million in distribution expenses due primarily to the
 timing of contract work and lower reimbursements;
 and

· 

an
 increase of $1.4 million in legal spending due to increased regulatory
 activity.

The
increase was partially offset by a decrease of $5.9 million in payroll,
payroll-related, and benefit costs.

Depreciation and amortization expenses
increased primarily due to an increase in plant in service.

Other income decreased primarily due to
decreased interest earned on money pool investments and the gain recorded in
2007 on the sale of non-utility property.

Income
Taxes

The effective income tax rates for
2009, 2008, and 2007 were 35.3%, 35.8%, and 33.2%, respectively. See
Note 3 to the financial statements for a reconciliation of the federal statutory
rate of 35.0% to the effective income tax rate.

 

 

326

 

Entergy
Mississippi, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Cash
Flow

Cash flows for the years ended December
31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 were as follows:

 
 

 
 

 
 

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

2007

 
 

 
 

 
 

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 
 

$1,082 

 
 

$40,582 

 
 

$73,417 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 flow provided by (used in):

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Operating
 activities

 
 

222,019 

 
 

80,000 

 
 

169,194 

 
 

Investing
 activities

 
 

(159,473)

 
 

(133,289)

 
 

(68,901)

 
 

Financing
 activities

 
 

27,824 

 
 

13,789 

 
 

(133,128)

 
 

 Net
 increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 
 

90,370 

 
 

(39,500)

 
 

(32,835)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at end of period

 
 

$91,452 

 
 

$1,082 

 
 

$40,582 

Operating
Activities

Cash flow provided by operating
activities increased $142 million in 2009 primarily due to increased recovery of
deferred fuel costs and a decrease of $5.9 million in pension contributions,
offset by an increase of $22.4 million in income tax payments.

Cash flow provided by operating
activities decreased $89.2 million in 2008 primarily due to:

· 

decreased
 recovery of deferred fuel and purchased power
 costs;

· 

the
 receipt of $48 million of securitization proceeds in
 2007;

· 

the
 timing of collections of receivables from customers and payments to
 vendors; and

· 

an
 increase of $10.9 million in pension
 contributions.

The
decrease was partially offset by a decrease in income tax payments.

Investing
Activities

Cash flow used in investing activities
increased $26.2 million in 2009 primarily due to money pool activity, offset by
decreased construction expenditures related to various fossil and distribution
projects.

Increases in Entergy Mississippi's
receivable from the money pool are a use of cash flow, and Entergy Mississippi's
receivable from the money pool increased by $31.4 million in
2009. The money pool is an inter-company borrowing arrangement
designed to reduce Entergy's subsidiaries' need for external short-term
borrowings.

Cash flow used in investing activities
increased $64.4 million in 2008 primarily due to the receipt of proceeds in 2007
from funds held in trust in 2006 that were used for the redemption in January
2007, prior to maturity, of $100 million of 4.35% Series First Mortgage
Bonds, partially offset by the transfer in 2007 of $30.7 million to the storm
damage reserve escrow account and money pool activity.

Decreases in Entergy Mississippi's
receivable from the money pool are a source of cash flow, and Entergy
Mississippi's receivable from the money pool decreased by $21 million in
2008.

 

 

327

 

Entergy
Mississippi, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Financing
Activities

Cash flow
provided by financing activities increased $14 million in 2009 primarily due to
the issuance of $150 million of 6.64% Series first mortgage bonds in June 2009,
offset by money pool activity.

Decreases in Entergy Mississippi's
payable to the money pool are a use of cash flow, and Entergy Mississippi's
payable to the money pool decreased by $66 million in 2009.

Entergy
Mississippi's financing activities provided $13.8 million in cash flow in 2008
compared to using $133.1 million in cash flow in 2007 primarily due to the
redemption, prior to maturity, of $100 million of 4.35% Series First Mortgage
Bonds in January 2007 and money pool activity, partially offset by an increase
of $18 million in common stock dividends paid.

Increases
in Entergy Mississippi's payable to the money pool are a source of cash flow,
and Entergy Mississippi's payable to the money pool increased by $66 million in
2008.

See Note 5 to the financial statements
for details on long-term debt.

Capital
Structure

Entergy
Mississippi's capitalization is balanced between equity and debt, as shown in
the following table. The increase in the debt to capital ratio is due to the
issuance of $150 million of 6.64% Series first mortgage bonds in June 2009, as
discussed below.

 
 

 
 

December
 31,

 2009

 
 

December
 31,

2008

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Net
 debt to net capital

 
 

50.7%

 
 

49.5%

Effect
 of subtracting cash from debt

 
 

2.8%

 
 

0.0%

Debt
 to capital

 
 

53.5%

 
 

49.5%

Net debt
consists of debt less cash and cash equivalents. Debt consists of
capital lease obligations and long-term debt, including the currently maturing
portion. Capital consists of debt and shareholders'
equity. Net capital consists of capital less cash and cash
equivalents. Entergy Mississippi uses the net debt to net capital
ratio in analyzing its financial condition and believes it provides useful
information to its investors and creditors in evaluating Entergy Mississippi's
financial condition.

Uses
of Capital

Entergy Mississippi requires capital
resources for:

· 

construction
 and other capital investments;

· 

debt
 and preferred stock maturities;

· 

working
 capital purposes, including the financing of fuel and purchased power
 costs; and

· 

dividend
 and interest payments.

 

 

328

 

Entergy
Mississippi, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Following are the amounts of Entergy
Mississippi's planned construction and other capital investments, and existing
debt obligations and lease obligations (includes estimated interest
payments):

 
 

2010

 
 

2011-2012

 
 

2013-2014

 
 

After
 2014

 
 

Total

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

Planned
 construction and

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 capital
 investment (1)

$219

 
 

$375

 
 

N/A

 
 

N/A

 
 

$594

 
 

Long-term
 debt (2)

$50

 
 

$173

 
 

$182

 
 

$1,080

 
 

$1,485

 
 

Capital
 lease payments

$2

 
 

$4

 
 

$2

 
 

N/A

 
 

$8

 
 

Operating
 leases

$6

 
 

$7

 
 

$6

 
 

$9

 
 

$28

 
 

Purchase
 obligations (3)

$187

 
 

$366

 
 

$351

 
 

$1,596

 
 

$2,500

 
 

(1)

Includes
 approximately $123 million annually for maintenance capital, which is
 planned spending on routine capital projects that are necessary to support
 reliability of service, equipment or systems, and to support normal
 customer growth.

(2)

Includes
 estimated interest payments. Long-term debt is discussed in
 Note 5 to the financial statements.

(3)

Purchase
 obligations represent the minimum purchase obligation or cancellation
 charge for contractual obligations to purchase goods or
 services. For Entergy Mississippi, almost all of the total
 consists of unconditional fuel and purchased power obligations, including
 its obligations under the Unit Power Sales Agreement, which is discussed
 in Note 8 to the financial
statements.

In
addition to the contractual obligations given above, Entergy Mississippi
currently expects to contribute approximately $17.8 million to its pension plans
and approximately $5 million to other postretirement plans in 2010; although the
required pension contributions will not be known with more certainty until the
January 1, 2010 valuations are completed by April 1, 2010. Also,
guidance pursuant to the Pension Protection Act of 2006 rules, effective for the
2008 plan year and beyond, continues to evolve, be interpreted through technical
corrections bills, and discussed within the industry and by congressional
lawmakers. Any changes to the Pension Protection Act as a result of
these discussions and efforts may affect the level of Entergy Mississippi's
pension contributions in the future.

 Also, in addition to the
contractual obligations, Entergy Mississippi has $8 million of unrecognized tax
benefits and interest net of unused tax attributes for which the timing of
payments beyond 12 months cannot be reasonably estimated due to uncertainties in
the timing of effective settlement of tax positions. See Note 3 to
the financial statements for additional information regarding unrecognized tax
benefits.

The planned capital investment estimate
for Entergy Mississippi reflects capital required to support existing business
and customer growth. Entergy's Utility supply plan initiative will
continue to seek to transform its generation portfolio with new or repowered
generation resources. Opportunities resulting from the supply plan
initiative, including new projects or the exploration of alternative financing
sources, could result in increases or decreases in the capital expenditure
estimates given above. The estimated capital expenditures are subject
to periodic review and modification and may vary based on the ongoing effects of
regulatory constraints, environmental compliance, market volatility, economic
trends, and the ability to access capital. Management provides more
information on long-term debt and preferred stock maturities in Notes 5 and 6 to
the financial statements.

As a wholly-owned subsidiary, Entergy
Mississippi dividends its earnings to Entergy Corporation at a percentage
determined monthly. Entergy Mississippi's long-term debt indentures
restrict the amount of retained earnings available for the payment of cash
dividends or other distributions on its common and preferred
stock. As of December 31, 2009, Entergy Mississippi had restricted
retained earnings unavailable for distribution to Entergy Corporation of $236
million.

 

 

329

 

Entergy
Mississippi, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

New Nuclear
Development

Pursuant to the Mississippi Baseload
Act and the Mississippi Public Utilities Act, Entergy Mississippi is developing
a project option for new nuclear generation at Grand Gulf Nuclear
Station. Entergy Mississippi, together with Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana, has been engaged in the development of options
to construct new nuclear generation at the Grand Gulf and River Bend Station
sites. Entergy Mississippi is leading the development at Grand Gulf,
and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana are leading the
development at River Bend. This project is in the early stages, and
several issues remain to be addressed over time before significant additional
capital would be committed to this project. In 2010, Entergy
Mississippi paid for and has recognized on its books $49.5 million in costs
associated with the development of new nuclear generation at Grand Gulf; these
costs previously had been recorded on the books of Entergy New Nuclear
Development, LLC, a System Energy subsidiary.

Sources
of Capital

Entergy Mississippi's sources to meet
its capital requirements include:

· 

internally
 generated funds;

· 

cash
 on hand;

· 

debt
 or preferred stock issuances; and

· 

bank
 financing under new or existing
facilities.

Entergy Mississippi may refinance or
redeem debt and preferred stock prior to maturity, to the extent market
conditions and interest and dividend rates are favorable.

All debt and common and preferred stock
issuances by Entergy Mississippi require prior regulatory
approval. Preferred stock and debt issuances are also subject to
issuance tests set forth in its corporate charter, bond indenture, and other
agreements. Entergy Mississippi has sufficient capacity under these
tests to meet its foreseeable capital needs.

In May and June 2009, Entergy
Mississippi renewed its two separate credit facilities through May 2010. In
August 2009, Entergy Mississippi increased its borrowing capacity with a third
line of credit which will also expire in May 2010, increasing the borrowing
limits to the aggregate amount of $70 million. No borrowings were
outstanding under the credit facilities as of December 31, 2009.

Entergy Mississippi's receivables from
or (payables to) the money pool were as follows as of December 31 for each of
the following years:

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

2007

 
 

2006

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$31,435

 
 

($66,044)

 
 

$20,997

 
 

$39,573

In May
2007, $6.6 million of Entergy Mississippi's receivable from the money pool was
replaced by a note receivable from Entergy New Orleans. See Note 4 to
the financial statements for a description of the money pool.

 Entergy
Mississippi has obtained short-term borrowing authorization from the FERC under
which it may borrow through October 2011, up to the aggregate amount, at any one
time outstanding, of $175 million. See Note 4 to the financial
statements for further discussion of Entergy Mississippi's short-term borrowing
limits. Entergy Mississippi has also obtained an order from the FERC
authorizing long-term securities issuances through July 2011.

 

 

330

 

Entergy
Mississippi, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

State and Local Rate
Regulation

The rates that Entergy Mississippi
charges for electricity significantly influence its financial position, results
of operations, and liquidity. Entergy Mississippi is regulated and
the rates charged to its customers are determined in regulatory
proceedings. A governmental agency, the MPSC, is primarily
responsible for approval of the rates charged to customers.

Formula
Rate Plan

In September 2009, Entergy Mississippi
filed proposed modifications to its formula rate plan rider. The
proposed modifications include: (1) resetting Entergy Mississippi's return on
common equity to the middle of the formula rate plan bandwidth each year and
eliminating the 50/50 sharing in the current plan, (2) replacing the current
rate change limit of two percent of revenues subject to a $14.5 million revenue
adjustment cap with a proposed limit of four percent of revenues, (3)
implementing a projected test year for the annual filing and subsequent
look-back for the prior year, and (4) modifying the performance measurement
process.

In March 2009, Entergy Mississippi made
with the MPSC its annual scheduled formula rate plan filing for the 2008 test
year. The filing reported a $27.0 million revenue deficiency and an earned
return on common equity of 7.41%. Entergy Mississippi requested a
$14.5 million increase in annual electric revenues, which is the maximum
increase allowed under the terms of the formula rate plan. The MPSC
issued an order on June 30, 2009, finding that Entergy Mississippi's earned
return was sufficiently below the lower bandwidth limit set by the formula rate
plan to require a $14.5 million increase in annual revenues, effective for bills
rendered on or after June 30, 2009.

In March 2008, Entergy Mississippi made
its annual scheduled formula rate plan filing for the 2007 test year with the
MPSC. The filing showed that a $10.1 million increase in annual
electric revenues is warranted. In June 2008, Entergy
Mississippi reached a settlement with the Mississippi Public Utilities Staff
that would result in a $3.8 million rate increase. In January
2009 the MPSC rejected the settlement and left the current rates in
effect. Entergy Mississippi appealed the MPSC's decision to the
Mississippi Supreme Court. After the decision of the MPSC regarding
the formula rate plan filing for the 2008 test year, Entergy Mississippi filed a
motion to dismiss its appeal to the Mississippi Supreme Court.

In March 2007, Entergy Mississippi made
its annual scheduled formula rate plan filing for the 2006 test year with the
MPSC. The filing showed that an increase of $12.9 million in
annual electric revenues is warranted. In June 2007 the MPSC approved
a joint stipulation between Entergy Mississippi and the Mississippi Public
Utilities staff that provides for a $10.5 million rate increase, which was
effective beginning with July 2007 billings.

Fuel
and Purchased Power Cost Recovery

Entergy Mississippi's rate schedules
include an energy cost recovery rider that is adjusted quarterly to reflect
accumulated over- or under-recoveries from the second prior
quarter.

In July 2008 the MPSC began a
proceeding to investigate the fuel procurement practices and fuel adjustment
schedules of the Mississippi utility companies, including Entergy
Mississippi. A two-day public hearing was held in July 2008, and
after a recess during which the MPSC reviewed information, the hearing resumed
on August 5, 2008, for additional testimony by an expert witness retained by the
MPSC. The MPSC's witness presented testimony regarding a review of
the utilities' fuel adjustment clauses. The MPSC stated that the goal
of the proceeding is fact-finding so that the MPSC may decide whether to amend
the current fuel cost recovery process. In February 2009 the MPSC
published a final report of its expert witness, which discussed Entergy
Mississippi's fuel procurement activities and made recommendations regarding
fuel recovery practices in Mississippi.

In addition, in October 2008 the MPSC
issued an order directing Entergy Mississippi and Entergy Services to provide
documents associated with fuel adjustment clause litigation in Louisiana
involving Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans, and in January 2009 issued
an order requiring Entergy Mississippi to provide additional information related
to the long-term Evangeline gas contract that had been an issue in the fuel
adjustment clause litigation in Louisiana. Entergy Mississippi and
Entergy Services filed a response

 

 

331

 

Entergy
Mississippi, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

to the
MPSC order stating that gas from the Evangeline gas contract had been sold into
the Entergy System exchange and had an effect on the costs paid by Entergy
Mississippi's customers. The MPSC's investigation is
ongoing.

In August 2009 the MPSC retained an
independent audit firm to audit Entergy Mississippi's fuel adjustment clause
submittals for the period October 2007 through September 2009. The
independent audit firm submitted its report to the MPSC in December
2009. The report does not recommend that any costs be disallowed for
recovery. The report did suggest that some costs, less than one
percent of the fuel and purchased power costs recovered during the period, may
have been more reasonably charged to customers through base rates rather than
through fuel charges, but the report did not suggest that customers should not
have paid for those costs. In November 2009 the MPSC also retained
another firm to review processes and practices related to fuel and purchased
energy. The results of that review are due to the MPSC in March
2010.

In January 2010 the MPSC issued an
order certifying to the Mississippi Legislature the independent audit report and
the Public Utilities Staff's annual fuel audit report for the years ended
September 30, 2008 and 2009, which did not find any imprudent
costs. The order stated that the MPSC will open a rulemaking docket
to address certain policy issues regarding allowable fuel adjustment costs, fuel
adjustment mechanisms, and related matters.

Mississippi
Attorney General Complaint

The Mississippi attorney general filed
a complaint in state court in December 2008 against Entergy Corporation, Entergy
Mississippi, Entergy Services, and Entergy Power alleging, among other things,
violations of Mississippi statutes, fraud, and breach of good faith and fair
dealing, and requesting an accounting and restitution. The litigation
is wide ranging and relates to tariffs and procedures under which Entergy
Mississippi purchases power not generated in Mississippi to meet electricity
demand. Entergy believes the complaint is unfounded. On
December 29, 2008, the defendant Entergy companies filed to remove the attorney
general's suit to U.S. District Court (the forum that Entergy believes is
appropriate to resolve the types of federal issues raised in the suit), where it
is currently pending, and additionally answered the complaint and filed a
counter-claim for relief based upon the Mississippi Public Utilities Act and the
Federal Power Act. The Mississippi attorney general has filed a
pleading seeking to remand the matter to state court. In May 2009,
the defendant Entergy companies filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings
asserting grounds of federal preemption, the exclusive jurisdiction of the MPSC,
and factual errors in the attorney general's complaint.

Federal
Regulation

System Agreement
Proceedings

See "
System Agreement
Proceedings
" in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries' Management's
Discussion and Analysis for discussion of the proceeding at the FERC involving
the System Agreement and of other related proceedings.

Transmission

See "
Independent Coordinator of
Transmission
" in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries' Management's
Discussion and Analysis for further discussion.

Critical Accounting
Estimates

The
preparation of Entergy Mississippi's financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to apply
appropriate accounting policies and to make estimates and judgments that can
have a significant effect on reported financial position, results of operations,
and cash flows. Management has identified the following accounting
policies and estimates as critical because they are based on assumptions and
measurements that involve a high degree of uncertainty, and there is the
potential for future changes in the assumptions and measurements that could
produce estimates that would have a material impact on the presentation of
Entergy Mississippi's financial position or results of operations.

 

 

332

 

Entergy
Mississippi, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Unbilled
Revenue

As
discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, Entergy Mississippi records an
estimate of the revenues earned for energy delivered since the latest customer
billing. Each month the estimated unbilled revenue amounts are
recorded as revenue and a receivable, and the prior month's estimate is
reversed. The difference between the estimate of the unbilled
receivable at the beginning of the period and the end of the period is the
amount of unbilled revenue recognized during the period. The estimate
recorded is primarily based upon an estimate of customer usage during the
unbilled period and the billed price to customers in that
month. Therefore, revenue recognized may be affected by the estimated
price and usage at the beginning and end of each period, in addition to changes
in certain components of the calculation.

Qualified
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

Entergy
sponsors qualified defined benefit pension plans which cover substantially all
employees. Additionally, Entergy currently provides postretirement
health care and life insurance benefits for substantially all employees who
reach retirement age while still working for Entergy. Entergy's
reported costs of providing these benefits, as described in Note 11 to the
financial statements, are impacted by numerous factors including the provisions
of the plans, changing employee demographics, and various actuarial
calculations, assumptions, and accounting mechanisms. See the "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
" section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
Management's Discussion and Analysis for further discussion. Because
of the complexity of these calculations, the long-term nature of these
obligations, and the importance of the assumptions utilized, Entergy's estimate
of these costs is a critical accounting estimate.

Cost
Sensitivity

The
following chart reflects the sensitivity of qualified pension cost to changes in
certain actuarial assumptions (dollars in thousands):

 

 

Actuarial
 Assumption

 
 

 

Change
 in

Assumption

 
 

 

Impact
 on 2009

Qualified
 Pension Cost

 
 

Impact
 on Projected

Qualified
 Benefit

Obligation

 
 

 
 

Increase/(Decrease)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Discount
 rate

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$629

 
 

$6,592

Rate
 of return on plan assets

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$498

 
 

-

Rate
 of increase in compensation

 
 

0.25%

 
 

$304

 
 

$1,347

The
following chart reflects the sensitivity of postretirement benefit cost to
changes in certain actuarial assumptions (dollars in thousands):

 

 

Actuarial
 Assumption

 
 

 

Change
 in

Assumption

 
 

 

Impact
 on 2009

Postretirement
 Benefit Cost

 
 

Impact
 on Accumulated

Postretirement
 Benefit

Obligation

 
 

 
 

Increase/(Decrease)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Health
 care cost trend

 
 

0.25%

 
 

$327

 
 

$1,700

Discount
 rate

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$187

 
 

$1,945

Each
fluctuation above assumes that the other components of the calculation are held
constant.

 

333

 

Entergy
Mississippi, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Costs and
Funding

Total
qualified pension cost for Entergy Mississippi in 2009 was $3.4
million. Entergy Mississippi anticipates 2010 qualified pension cost
to be $7.3 million. Entergy Mississippi contributed $5.8 million to
its qualified pension plans in 2009 and anticipates that it will contribute
approximately $17.8 million in 2010 although the required pension contributions
will not be known with more certainty until the January 1, 2010 valuations are
completed by April 1, 2010. Also, guidance pursuant to the Pension
Protection Act of 2006 rules, effective for the 2008 plan year and beyond,
continues to evolve, be interpreted through technical corrections bills, and
discussed within the industry and by congressional lawmakers. Any
changes to the Pension Protection Act as a result of these discussions and
efforts may affect the level of Entergy Mississippi's pension contributions in
the future.

Total
postretirement health care and life insurance benefit costs for Entergy
Mississippi in 2009 were $6.5 million, including $1.6 million in savings due to
the estimated effect of future Medicare Part D subsidies. Entergy
Mississippi expects 2010 postretirement health care and life insurance benefit
costs to approximate $5.0 million, including $1.6 million in savings due to the
estimated effect of future Medicare Part D subsidies. Entergy
Mississippi expects to contribute approximately $5 million to its other
postretirement plans in 2010.

New Accounting
Pronouncements

See "
New
Accounting Pronouncements
" section of Entergy Corporation and
Subsidiaries Management's Discussion and Analysis for a discussion of new
accounting pronouncements.

 

334

 

 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Entergy
Mississippi, Inc.

Jackson,
Mississippi

We have
audited the accompanying balance sheets of Entergy Mississippi, Inc. (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related statements of
income, retained earnings, and cash flows (pages 336 through 340 and applicable
items in pages 63 through 193) for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2009. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our
opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Entergy Mississippi, Inc. as of December 31, 2009 and
2008, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 24, 2010 expressed an
unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

335

 

ENTERGY
 MISSISSIPPI, INC.

 

INCOME
 STATEMENTS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 REVENUES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electric

 

$

1,177,304

 

 

$

1,462,182

 

 

$

1,372,802

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 EXPENSES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Operation
 and Maintenance:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Fuel,
 fuel-related expenses, and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 gas
 purchased for resale

 

 

340,804

 

 

 

456,730

 

 

 

456,346

 

 Purchased
 power

 

 

359,664

 

 

 

468,219

 

 

 

414,763

 

 Other
 operation and maintenance

 

 

217,452

 

 

 

216,554

 

 

 

202,952

 

Taxes
 other than income taxes

 

 

63,381

 

 

 

63,807

 

 

 

62,516

 

Depreciation
 and amortization

 

 

86,872

 

 

 

83,297

 

 

 

79,470

 

Other
 regulatory charges (credits) - net

 

 

(57,056

)

 

 

38,385

 

 

 

14,810

 

TOTAL

 

 

1,011,117

 

 

 

1,326,992

 

 

 

1,230,857

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 INCOME

 

 

166,187

 

 

 

135,190

 

 

 

141,945

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
 INCOME

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Allowance
 for equity funds used during construction

 

 

2,964

 

 

 

2,966

 

 

 

3,900

 

Interest
 and dividend income

 

 

863

 

 

 

1,778

 

 

 

5,572

 

Miscellaneous
 - net

 

 

(564

)

 

 

(2,047

)

 

 

1,011

 

TOTAL

 

 

3,263

 

 

 

2,697

 

 

 

10,483

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INTEREST
 AND OTHER CHARGES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Interest
 on long-term debt

 

 

47,414

 

 

 

41,560

 

 

 

41,699

 

Other
 interest - net

 

 

3,868

 

 

 

5,328

 

 

 

5,321

 

Allowance
 for borrowed funds used during construction

 

 

(1,791

)

 

 

(1,951

)

 

 

(2,548

)

TOTAL

 

 

49,491

 

 

 

44,937

 

 

 

44,472

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INCOME
 BEFORE INCOME TAXES

 

 

119,959

 

 

 

92,950

 

 

 

107,956

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Income
 taxes

 

 

42,323

 

 

 

33,240

 

 

 

35,850

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NET
 INCOME

 

 

77,636

 

 

 

59,710

 

 

 

72,106

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Preferred
 dividend requirements and other

 

 

2,828

 

 

 

2,828

 

 

 

2,768

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EARNINGS
 APPLICABLE TO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMON
 STOCK

 

$

74,808

 

 

$

56,882

 

 

$

69,338

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

336

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 MISSISSIPPI, INC.

 

STATEMENTS
 OF CASH FLOWS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net
 income

 

$

77,636

 

 

$

59,710

 

 

$

72,106

 

Adjustments
 to reconcile net income to net cash flow provided by operating
 activities:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Other
 regulatory charges (credits) - net

 

 

(57,056

)

 

 

38,385

 

 

 

14,810

 

 Depreciation
 and amortization

 

 

86,872

 

 

 

83,297

 

 

 

79,470

 

 Deferred
 income taxes, investment tax credits, and non-current taxes
 accrued

 

 

15,923

 

 

 

32,031

 

 

 

(17,123

)

 Changes
 in working capital:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Receivables

 

 

44,050

 

 

 

(46,490

)

 

 

898

 

 Fuel
 inventory

 

 

3,413

 

 

 

1,078

 

 

 

(2,721

)

 Accounts
 payable

 

 

3,511

 

 

 

3,950

 

 

 

(13,379

)

 Taxes
 accrued

 

 

707

 

 

 

4,858

 

 

 

(9,649

)

 Interest
 accrued

 

 

2,066

 

 

 

1,919

 

 

 

2,131

 

 Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

77,932

 

 

 

(81,607

)

 

 

(18,654

)

 Other
 working capital accounts

 

 

(37,373

)

 

 

43,534

 

 

 

(12,432

)

 Provision
 for estimated losses and reserves

 

 

4,446

 

 

 

(13,307

)

 

 

40,228

 

 Changes
 in other regulatory assets

 

 

(43,807

)

 

 

(98,387

)

 

 

37,381

 

 Changes
 in pension and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

(6,786

)

 

 

61,277

 

 

 

(7,658

)

 Other

 

 

50,484

 

 

 

(10,248

)

 

 

3,786

 

Net
 cash flow provided by operating activities

 

 

222,018

 

 

 

80,000

 

 

 

169,194

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INVESTING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Construction
 expenditures

 

 

(130,907

)

 

 

(156,224

)

 

 

(156,643

)

Allowance
 for equity funds used during construction

 

 

2,964

 

 

 

2,966

 

 

 

3,900

 

Proceeds
 from sale of assets

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

2,616

 

Change
 in money pool receivable - net

 

 

(31,435

)

 

 

20,997

 

 

 

11,974

 

Changes
 in other temporary investments - net

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

100,000

 

Payment
 to storm reserve escrow account

 

 

(175

)

 

 

(944

)

 

 

(30,748

)

Other

 

 

80

 

 

 

(84

)

 

 

-

 

Net
 cash flow used in investing activities

 

 

(159,473

)

 

 

(133,289

)

 

 

(68,901

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FINANCING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Proceeds
 from the issuance of long-term debt

 

 

147,996

 

 

 

28,873

 

 

 

-

 

Retirement
 of long-term debt

 

 

-

 

 

 

(30,000

)

 

 

(100,000

)

Change
 in money pool payable - net

 

 

(66,044

)

 

 

66,044

 

 

 

-

 

Dividends
 paid:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Common
 stock

 

 

(51,300

)

 

 

(48,300

)

 

 

(30,300

)

 Preferred
 stock

 

 

(2,828

)

 

 

(2,828

)

 

 

(2,828

)

Net
 cash flow provided by (used in) financing activities

 

 

27,824

 

 

 

13,789

 

 

 

(133,128

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net
 increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 

 

90,369

 

 

 

(39,500

)

 

 

(32,835

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 

 

1,082

 

 

 

40,582

 

 

 

73,417

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at end of period

 

$

91,451

 

 

$

1,082

 

 

$

40,582

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUPPLEMENTAL
 DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 paid during the period for:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Interest
 - net of amount capitalized

 

$

47,007

 

 

$

42,960

 

 

$

42,479

 

 Income
 taxes

 

$

23,478

 

 

$

1,055

 

 

$

48,914

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

337

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 MISSISSIPPI, INC.

 

BALANCE
 SHEETS

 

ASSETS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

December
 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT
 ASSETS

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Cash

 

$

1,147

 

 

$

1,072

 

 Temporary
 cash investment

 

 

90,304

 

 

 

10

 

 Total
 cash and cash equivalents

 

 

91,451

 

 

 

1,082

 

Accounts
 receivable:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Customer

 

 

50,092

 

 

 

76,503

 

 Allowance
 for doubtful accounts

 

 

(1,018

)

 

 

(687

)

 Associated
 companies

 

 

36,565

 

 

 

29,291

 

 Other

 

 

12,842

 

 

 

11,675

 

 Accrued
 unbilled revenues

 

 

41,137

 

 

 

35,451

 

 Total
 accounts receivable

 

 

139,618

 

 

 

152,233

 

Note
 receivable - Entergy New Orleans

 

 

7,610

 

 

 

-

 

Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

-

 

 

 

5,025

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes

 

 

294

 

 

 

19,335

 

Fuel
 inventory - at average cost

 

 

5,875

 

 

 

9,288

 

Materials
 and supplies - at average cost

 

 

37,979

 

 

 

31,921

 

Prepayments
 and other

 

 

2,820

 

 

 

6,290

 

TOTAL

 

 

285,647

 

 

 

225,174

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
 PROPERTY AND INVESTMENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Investment
 in affiliates - at equity

 

 

5,535

 

 

 

5,615

 

Non-utility
 property - at cost (less accumulated depreciation)

 

 

4,864

 

 

 

5,000

 

Storm
 reserve escrow account

 

 

31,867

 

 

 

31,692

 

Note
 receivable - Entergy New Orleans

 

 

-

 

 

 

7,610

 

TOTAL

 

 

42,266

 

 

 

49,917

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UTILITY
 PLANT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electric

 

 

3,070,109

 

 

 

2,951,636

 

Property
 under capital lease

 

 

6,418

 

 

 

7,806

 

Construction
 work in progress

 

 

62,866

 

 

 

81,959

 

TOTAL
 UTILITY PLANT

 

 

3,139,393

 

 

 

3,041,401

 

Less
 - accumulated depreciation and amortization

 

 

1,115,756

 

 

 

1,058,426

 

UTILITY
 PLANT - NET

 

 

2,023,637

 

 

 

1,982,975

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DEFERRED
 DEBITS AND OTHER ASSETS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulatory
 assets:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Regulatory
 asset for income taxes - net

 

 

34,114

 

 

 

23,693

 

 Other
 regulatory assets

 

 

251,407

 

 

 

226,933

 

Other

 

 

19,564

 

 

 

19,451

 

TOTAL

 

 

305,085

 

 

 

270,077

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
 ASSETS

 

$

2,656,635

 

 

$

2,528,143

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

338

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 MISSISSIPPI, INC.

BALANCE
 SHEETS

LIABILITIES
 AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

December
 31,

 

 
 

 

 

2009

 

 

 

2008

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT
 LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Accounts
 payable:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

$

58,421

 

 

$

115,876

 

 Other

 

 

31,176

 

 

 

39,623

 

Customer
 deposits

 

 

62,316

 

 

 

58,517

 

Taxes
 accrued

 

 

41,603

 

 

 

40,896

 

Interest
 accrued

 

 

19,179

 

 

 

17,113

 

Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

72,907

 

 

 

-

 

System
 agreement cost equalization

 

 

-

 

 

 

23,000

 

Gas
 hedge contracts

 

 

-

 

 

 

15,610

 

Other

 

 

5,399

 

 

 

5,373

 

TOTAL

 

 

291,001

 

 

 

316,008

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NON-CURRENT
 LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes and taxes accrued

 

 

578,759

 

 

 

571,193

 

Accumulated
 deferred investment tax credits

 

 

7,514

 

 

 

8,605

 

Obligations
 under capital lease

 

 

4,949

 

 

 

6,418

 

Other
 regulatory liabilities

 

 

2,905

 

 

 

22,331

 

Asset
 retirement cost liabilities

 

 

5,071

 

 

 

4,784

 

Accumulated
 provisions

 

 

41,403

 

 

 

36,957

 

Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

111,437

 

 

 

118,223

 

Long-term
 debt

 

 

845,304

 

 

 

695,330

 

Other

 

 

29,146

 

 

 

32,656

 

TOTAL

 

 

1,626,488

 

 

 

1,496,497

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Commitments
 and Contingencies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Preferred
 stock without sinking fund

 

 

50,381

 

 

 

50,381

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SHAREHOLDERS'
 EQUITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Common
 stock, no par value, authorized 12,000,000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 shares;
 issued and outstanding 8,666,357 shares in 2009 and 2008

 

 

199,326

 

 

 

199,326

 

Capital
 stock expense and other

 

 

(690

)

 

 

(690

)

Retained
 earnings

 

 

490,129

 

 

 

466,621

 

TOTAL

 

 

688,765

 

 

 

665,257

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

 

$

2,656,635

 

 

$

2,528,143

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

339

 

 

ENTERGY
 MISSISSIPPI, INC.

 

STATEMENTS
 OF RETAINED EARNINGS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Retained
 Earnings, January 1

 

$

466,621

 

 

$

458,039

 

 

$

419,001

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Add:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Net
 income

 

 

77,636

 

 

 

59,710

 

 

 

72,106

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deduct:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Preferred
 dividend requirements and other

 

 

2,828

 

 

 

2,828

 

 

 

2,768

 

 Dividends
 declared on common stock

 

 

51,300

 

 

 

48,300

 

 

 

30,300

 

 Total

 

 

54,128

 

 

 

51,128

 

 

 

33,068

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Retained
 Earnings, December 31

 

$

490,129

 

 

$

466,621

 

 

$

458,039

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

340

 

 

ENTERGY
 MISSISSIPPI, INC.

 

SELECTED
 FINANCIAL DATA - FIVE-YEAR COMPARISON

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 

2006

 

 

2005

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Operating
 revenues

 

$

1,177,304

 

 

$

1,462,182

 

 

$

1,372,802

 

 

$

1,450,008

 

 

$

1,306,543

 

Net
 Income

 

$

77,636

 

 

$

59,710

 

 

$

72,106

 

 

$

52,285

 

 

$

62,103

 

Total
 assets

 

$

2,656,635

 

 

$

2,528,143

 

 

$

2,386,269

 

 

$

2,440,891

 

 

$

2,311,043

 

Long-term
 obligations (1)

 

$

850,253

 

 

$

701,748

 

 

$

703,072

 

 

$

795,187

 

 

$

695,157

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1) Includes
 long-term debt (excluding currently maturing debt) and noncurrent capital
 lease obligations.

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

2009

 

 

 

2008

 

 

 

2007

 

 

 

2006

 

 

 

2005

 

 
 

 

(Dollars
 In Millions)

 

Electric
 Operating Revenues:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Residential

 

$

467

 

 

$

556

 

 

$

500

 

 

$

568

 

 

$

503

 

 Commercial

 

 

395

 

 

 

482

 

 

 

428

 

 

 

484

 

 

 

421

 

 Industrial

 

 

147

 

 

 

199

 

 

 

185

 

 

 

236

 

 

 

209

 

 Governmental

 

 

37

 

 

 

44

 

 

 

40

 

 

 

45

 

 

 

41

 

 Total
 retail

 

 

1,046

 

 

 

1,281

 

 

 

1,153

 

 

 

1,333

 

 

 

1,174

 

 Sales
 for resale:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

49

 

 

 

93

 

 

 

139

 

 

 

43

 

 

 

62

 

 Non-associated
 companies

 

 

28

 

 

 

36

 

 

 

33

 

 

 

37

 

 

 

37

 

 Other

 

 

54

 

 

 

52

 

 

 

48

 

 

 

37

 

 

 

34

 

 Total

 

$

1,177

 

 

$

1,462

 

 

$

1,373

 

 

$

1,450

 

 

$

1,307

 

Billed
 Electric Energy Sales (GWh):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Residential

 

 

5,358

 

 

 

5,354

 

 

 

5,474

 

 

 

5,387

 

 

 

5,333

 

 Commercial

 

 

4,756

 

 

 

4,841

 

 

 

4,872

 

 

 

4,746

 

 

 

4,630

 

 Industrial

 

 

2,178

 

 

 

2,565

 

 

 

2,771

 

 

 

2,927

 

 

 

2,967

 

 Governmental

 

 

405

 

 

 

411

 

 

 

421

 

 

 

417

 

 

 

411

 

 Total
 retail

 

 

12,697

 

 

 

13,171

 

 

 

13,538

 

 

 

13,477

 

 

 

13,341

 

 Sales
 for resale:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

198

 

 

 

534

 

 

 

1,025

 

 

 

469

 

 

 

516

 

 Non-associated
 companies

 

 

330

 

 

 

401

 

 

 

468

 

 

 

431

 

 

 

420

 

 Total

 

 

13,225

 

 

 

14,106

 

 

 

15,031

 

 

 

14,377

 

 

 

14,277

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

341

 

 

 

ENTERGY
NEW ORLEANS, INC.

MANAGEMENT'S
FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Results of
Operations

Net
Income

2009 Compared to
2008

Net income decreased $3.9 million
primarily due to lower net revenue and lower other income, partially offset by
lower interest expense and a lower effective income tax rate.

2008 Compared to
2007

Net income increased $10.4 million
primarily due to higher net revenue, lower other operation and maintenance
expenses, partially offset by lower other income and higher taxes other than
income taxes.

Net
Revenue

2009 Compared to
2008

Net revenue consists of operating
revenues net of: 1) fuel, fuel-related expenses, and gas purchased for resale,
2) purchased power expenses, and 3) other regulatory
charges. Following is an analysis of the change in net revenue
comparing 2009 to 2008.

 
 

 
 

Amount

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

 
 

 
 

 
 

2008
 net revenue

 
 

$252.7 

Effect
 of rate case settlement

 
 

(14.4)

Price
 applied to unbilled sales

 
 

(4.1)

Volume/weather

 
 

9.2 

Other

 
 

(0.4)

2009
 net revenue

 
 

$243.0 

The effect of rate case settlement
variance results from the April 2009 settlement of Entergy New Orleans’ rate
case, and includes the effects of realigning non-fuel costs associated with the
operation of Grand Gulf from the fuel adjustment clause to electric base rates
effective June 2009. See Note 2 to the financial statements for
further discussion of the rate case settlement.

The price applied to unbilled sales
variance results from a decline in natural gas and purchased power
prices.

The volume/weather variance is
primarily due to an increase in electricity usage in the service territory, and
more favorable weather in 2009 compared to the same period in
2008. Entergy New Orleans estimates that approximately 150,000
electric customers and 96,000 gas customers have returned since Hurricane
Katrina and are taking service as of December 31, 2009, compared to
approximately 141,000 electric customers and 93,000 gas customers as of December
31, 2008. Billed retail electricity usage increased a total of 238
GWh compared to the same period in 2008, an increase of 5.3%.

 

342

 

Entergy
New Orleans, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Gross
operating revenues and fuel and purchased power expenses

Gross operating revenues decreased
primarily due to:

· 

a
 decrease of $107.5 million in electric fuel cost recovery revenues due to
 lower fuel rates offset by higher electricity
 usage;

· 

a
 decrease of $74.8 million in gross wholesale revenue due to a decrease in
 the average price of energy available for resale sales;
 and

· 

a
 decrease of $37 million in gross gas revenues primarily due to lower fuel
 cost recovery revenues.

Fuel and purchased power expenses
decreased primarily due to decreases in the average market prices of natural gas
and purchased power, partially offset by an increase in demand.

2008 Compared to
2007

Net revenue consists of operating
revenues net of: 1) fuel, fuel-related expenses, and gas purchased for resale,
2) purchased power expenses, and 3) other regulatory
charges. Following is an analysis of the change in net revenue
comparing 2008 to 2007.

 
 

 
 

Amount

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

 
 

 
 

 
 

2007
 net revenue

 
 

$231.0 

Volume/weather

 
 

15.5 

Net
 gas revenue

 
 

6.6 

Rider
 revenue

 
 

3.9 

Base
 revenue

 
 

(11.3)

Other

 
 

7.0 

2008
 net revenue

 
 

$252.7 

The volume/weather variance is due to
an increase in electricity usage in the service territory in 2008 compared to
the same period in 2007. Entergy New Orleans estimates that
approximately 141,000 electric customers and 93,000 gas customers have returned
since Hurricane Katrina and are taking service as of December 31, 2008, compared
to approximately 132,000 electric customers and 86,000 gas customers as of
December 31, 2007. Billed retail electricity usage increased a total
of 184 GWh compared to the same period in 2007, an increase of 4%.

The net gas revenue variance is
primarily due to an increase in base rates in March and November
2007. Refer to Note 2 to the financial statements for a discussion of
the base rate increase.

The rider revenue variance is due
primarily to higher total revenue and a storm reserve rider effective March 2007
as a result of the City Council's approval of a settlement agreement in October
2006. The approved storm reserve has been set to collect $75 million
over a ten-year period through the rider and the funds will be held in a
restricted escrow account. The settlement agreement is discussed in
Note 2 to the financial statements.

The base revenue variance is primarily
due to a base rate recovery credit, effective January 2008. The base
rate credit is discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements.

Gross
operating revenues and fuel and purchased power expenses

Gross operating revenues increased
primarily due to:

· 

an
 increase of $58.9 million in gross wholesale revenue due to
 increased sales to affiliated customers and an increase in the average
 price of energy available for resale
sales;

· 

an
 increase of $47.7 million in electric fuel cost recovery revenues due to
 higher fuel rates and increased electricity usage;
 and

 

 

 

343

 

Entergy
New Orleans, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

 

· 

an
 increase of $22 million in gross gas revenues due to higher fuel recovery
 revenues and increases in gas base rates in March 2007 and November
 2007.

Fuel and purchased power expenses
increased primarily due to increases in the average market prices of natural gas
and purchased power in addition to an increase in demand.

Other
Income Statement Variances

2009 Compared to
2008

Other
income decreased primarily due to a decrease in the interest rate earned on
money pool investments.

Interest
and other charges decreased primarily due to a decrease in the interest rate on
notes payable issued to affiliates as part of Entergy New Orleans' plan of
reorganization, as described more fully in Note 18 to the financial
statements.

2008 Compared to
2007

Other
operation and maintenance expenses decreased primarily due to:

· 

a
 provision for storm-related bad debts of $11 million recorded in
 2007;

· 

a
 decrease of $6.2 million in legal and professional
 fees;

· 

a
 decrease of $3.4 million in employee benefit expenses;
 and

· 

a
 decrease of $1.9 million in gas operations spending due to higher labor
 and material costs for reliability work in
2007.

The
decrease was partially offset by:

· 

an
 increase of $3 million due to the accrual of Energy Efficiency
 and Economic Development Funds;

· 

an
 increase of $3 million in outside regulatory consultant fees;
 and

· 

an
 increase of $2.7 million in loss reserves primarily due to the
 implementation of the storm reserve rider in March 2007. The
 storm reserve rider is discussed above under "
Net
 Revenue
."

Taxes
other than income taxes increased primarily due to higher franchise taxes in
2008 as a result of higher revenues.

Other
income decreased due to a reduction in the allowance for equity funds used
during construction related to a decrease in storm-related construction and
lower carrying costs due to the reduction of the Hurricane Katrina storm costs
regulatory asset.

Income
Taxes

The effective income tax rates for
2009, 2008, and 2007 were 33.6%, 39.7%, and 35.5%, respectively. See
Note 3 to the financial statements for a reconciliation of the federal statutory
rate of 35% to the effective income tax rate.

Hurricane
Katrina

In August 2005, Hurricane Katrina
caused catastrophic damage to Entergy New Orleans' service territory, including
the effect of extensive flooding that resulted from levee breaks in and around
the New Orleans area. The storms and flooding resulted in power
outages; significant damage to electric distribution, transmission, and
generation and gas infrastructure; and the loss of sales and customers due to
mandatory evacuations and the destruction of homes and
businesses. Entergy pursued a broad range of initiatives to recover
storm restoration and business continuity costs. Initiatives included
obtaining reimbursement of certain costs covered by insurance, obtaining
assistance through federal legislation for damage caused by Hurricanes Katrina
and Rita, and pursuing recovery through existing or new rate mechanisms
regulated by the FERC and the City Council.

 

 

344

 

Entergy
New Orleans, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Community
Development Block Grant (CDBG)

In December 2005, the U.S. Congress
passed the Katrina Relief Bill, a hurricane aid package that included CDBG
funding (for the states affected by Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma) that
allowed state and local leaders to fund individual recovery
priorities. In March 2007, the City Council certified that Entergy
New Orleans incurred $205 million in storm-related costs through December 2006
that are eligible for CDBG funding under the state action plan, and certified
Entergy New Orleans' estimated costs of $465 million for its gas system rebuild
(which is discussed below). Entergy New Orleans received $180.8
million of CDBG funds in 2007.

Insurance
Claims

Entergy has received a total of $317
million as of December 31, 2009 on its Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita
insurance claims, including the settlements of its Hurricane Katrina claims with
each of its two excess insurers. Of the $317 million received, $206
million was allocated to Entergy New Orleans. Entergy has
substantially completed its insurance recoveries related to Hurricane Katrina
and Hurricane Rita.

Rate
and Storm-related Riders Filings

See "
Formula Rate Plans and Storm-related
Riders
" below for a discussion of Entergy New Orleans' June 2006 formula
rate plan filings and request to implement two storm-related riders filed with
the City Council.

Gas
System Rebuild

In
addition to the Hurricane Katrina storm restoration costs that Entergy New
Orleans incurred, Entergy New Orleans expects that over a longer term rebuilding
of the gas system in New Orleans will be necessary due to the massive salt water
intrusion into the system caused by the flooding in New Orleans. The
salt water intrusion is expected to shorten the life of the gas system, making
it necessary to rebuild portions of that system over time, earlier than
otherwise would be expected. Entergy New Orleans currently expects
the cost to rebuild the gas system to be $465 million, with the project
extending many years into the future. Entergy New Orleans received
insurance proceeds for future construction expenditures associated with
rebuilding its gas system, and the October 2006 City Council resolution
approving the settlement of Entergy New Orleans' rate and storm-cost recovery
filings requires Entergy New Orleans to record those proceeds in a designated
sub-account of other deferred credits until the proceeds are spent on the
rebuild project. This other deferred credit is shown as "Gas system
rebuild insurance proceeds" on Entergy New Orleans' balance sheet.

Bankruptcy
Proceedings

As a result of the effects of Hurricane
Katrina and the effect of extensive flooding that resulted from levee breaks in
and around the New Orleans area, on September 23, 2005, Entergy New Orleans
filed a voluntary petition in bankruptcy court seeking reorganization relief
under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. On May 7, 2007, the
bankruptcy judge entered an order confirming Entergy New Orleans' plan of
reorganization. With the receipt of CDBG funds, and the agreement on
insurance recovery with one of its excess insurers, Entergy New Orleans waived
the conditions precedent in its plan of reorganization, and the plan became
effective on May 8, 2007. Following are significant terms in Entergy
New Orleans' plan of reorganization:

· 

Entergy
 New Orleans paid in full, in cash, the allowed third-party prepetition
 accounts payable (approximately $29 million, including
 interest). Entergy New Orleans paid interest from September 23,
 2005 at the Louisiana judicial rate of interest for 2005 (6%) and 2006
 (8%), and at the Louisiana judicial rate of interest (9.5%) plus 1% for
 2007 through the date of payment.

· 

Entergy
 New Orleans issued notes due in three years in satisfaction of its
 affiliate prepetition accounts payable (approximately $74 million,
 including interest), including its indebtedness to the Entergy System
 money pool. Entergy New Orleans included in the principal
 amount of the notes accrued interest from September 23, 2005 at the
 Louisiana judicial rate of interest for 2005 (6%) and 2006 (8%), and at
 the Louisiana judicial rate of interest plus 1% for 2007 through the date
 of issuance of the notes. Entergy New Orleans will pay interest
 on the notes from their date of issuance at the Louisiana judicial rate of
 interest plus 1%. The Louisiana judicial rate of interest is
 9.5% for 2007, 8.5% for 2008, 5.5% for 2009, and 3.5% for
 2010.

 

 

345

 

Entergy
New Orleans, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

· 

Entergy
 New Orleans repaid in full, in cash, the outstanding borrowings under the
 debtor-in-possession credit agreement between Entergy New Orleans and
 Entergy Corporation (approximately $67
million).

· 

Entergy
 New Orleans' first mortgage bonds remain outstanding with their stated
 maturity dates and interest terms. Pursuant to an agreement
 with its first mortgage bondholders, Entergy New Orleans paid the first
 mortgage bondholders an amount equal to the one year of interest from the
 bankruptcy petition date that the bondholders had waived previously in the
 bankruptcy proceeding (approximately $12
 million).

· 

Entergy
 New Orleans' preferred stock remains outstanding on its stated dividend
 terms, and Entergy New Orleans paid its unpaid preferred dividends in
 arrears (approximately $1 million).

· 

Litigation
 claims were generally unaltered, and are generally proceeding as if
 Entergy New Orleans had not filed for bankruptcy protection, with
 exceptions for certain claims.

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Debtor-in-Possession
Credit Facility

On
September 26, 2005, Entergy New Orleans, as borrower, and Entergy Corporation,
as lender, entered into a debtor-in-possession credit facility to provide
funding to Entergy New Orleans during its business restoration
efforts. The credit facility provided for up to $200 million in
loans. The interest rate on borrowings under the credit facility was
the average interest rate of borrowings outstanding under Entergy Corporation's
revolving credit facility. With the confirmation of Entergy New
Orleans' plan of reorganization in May 2007, Entergy New Orleans repaid to
Entergy Corporation, in full, in cash, the $67 million of outstanding borrowings
under the debtor-in-possession credit facility.

Cash
Flow

Cash flows for the years ended December
31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 were as follows:

 
 

 
 

 
 

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

2007

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 
 

$137,444 

 
 

$92,010 

 
 

$17,093 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 flow provided by (used in):

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Operating
 activities

 
 

148,556 

 
 

87,182 

 
 

207,394 

 
 

Investing
 activities

 
 

(59,848)

 
 

(9,777)

 
 

(78,441)

 
 

Financing
 activities

 
 

(34,961)

 
 

(31,971)

 
 

(54,036)

 
 

 Net
 increase in cash and cash equivalents

 
 

53,747 

 
 

45,434 

 
 

74,917 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at end of period

 
 

$191,191 

 
 

$137,444 

 
 

$92,010 

Operating
Activities

Net cash
provided by operating activities increased $61.4 million in 2009 primarily due
to:

· 

the
 timing of collection of receivables from
 customers;

· 

income
 tax refunds of $22.1 million in 2009 compared to income tax payments of
 $5.8 million in 2008; and

· 

increased
 recovery of deferred fuel costs.

The
increase was partially offset by the timing of payments to vendors.

Net cash
provided by operating activities decreased $120.2 million in 2008 primarily due
to the receipt of $180.8 million of CBDG funds in 2007. This decrease
was partially offset by a decrease of $43.6 million in pension contributions and
the timing of payments to vendors.

 

 

346

 

Entergy
New Orleans, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Investing
Activities

Net cash used in investing activities
increased $50.1 million in 2009 primarily due to a decrease in Hurricane Katrina
insurance proceeds received in 2009 as compared to 2008, partially offset by
storm restoration spending in 2008 related to Hurricane Gustav.

Net cash used in investing activities
decreased $68.7 million in 2008 primarily due to an increase in Hurricane
Katrina insurance proceeds in 2008 as compared to 2007 and money pool activity,
partially offset by proceeds of $10 million related to the sale of a power plant
in 2007.

 Increases in Entergy New Orleans'
receivable from the money pool are a use of cash flow, and Entergy New Orleans'
receivable from the money pool increased by $12.4 million in
2008. The money pool is an inter-company borrowing arrangement
designed to reduce Entergy's subsidiaries' need for external short-term
borrowings.

Financing
Activities

Net cash used in financing activities
increased $3.0 million primarily due to $32.9 million of dividends paid on
common stock in 2009, partially offset by the redemption, at maturity, of $30
million of 3.875% Series First Mortgage Bonds in August 2008.

Net cash used in financing activities
decreased $22.1 million primarily due to the repayment of Entergy New Orleans'
borrowings under the debtor-in-possession credit facility in 2007, partially
offset by the redemption, at maturity, of $30 million of 3.875% Series First
Mortgage Bonds in August 2008.

See Note 5 to the financial statements
for details on long-term debt.

Capital
Structure

Entergy
New Orleans' capitalization is balanced between equity and debt as shown in the
following table.

 
 

 
 

December
 31,

 2009

 
 

December
 31,

2008

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Net
 debt to net capital

 
 

26.2%

 
 

37.0%

Effect
 of subtracting cash from debt

 
 

28.2%

 
 

17.1%

Debt
 to capital

 
 

54.4%

 
 

54.1%

Net debt
consists of debt less cash and cash equivalents. Debt consists of
notes payable and long-term debt, including the currently maturing
portion. Capital consists of debt and shareholders'
equity. Net capital consists of capital less cash and cash
equivalents. Entergy New Orleans uses the net debt to net capital
ratio in analyzing its financial condition and believes it provides useful
information to its investors and creditors in evaluating Entergy New Orleans'
financial condition.

Uses
of Capital

Entergy
New Orleans requires capital resources for:

· 

construction
 and other capital investments;

· 

working
 capital purposes, including the financing of fuel and purchased power
 costs; and

· 

dividend
 payments.

Following
are the amounts of Entergy New Orleans' planned construction and other capital
investments and existing debt and lease obligations (includes estimated interest
payments):

 

347

 

Entergy
New Orleans, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

 
 

2010

 
 

2011-2012

 
 

2013-2014

 
 

After
 2014

 
 

Total

 
 

(In
 Millions)

Planned
 construction and

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 capital
 investment (1)

$86

 
 

$67

 
 

N/A

 
 

N/A

 
 

$153

Long-term
 debt (2)

$40

 
 

$19

 
 

$84

 
 

$153

 
 

$296

Operating
 leases

$1

 
 

$1

 
 

$-

 
 

$1

 
 

$3

Purchase
 obligations (3)

$174

 
 

$354

 
 

$322

 
 

$1,870

 
 

$2,720

(1)

Includes
 approximately $35 million annually for maintenance capital, which is
 planned spending on routine capital projects that are necessary to support
 reliability of service, equipment or systems and to support normal
 customer growth.

(2)

Includes
 estimated interest payments. Long-term debt is discussed in
 Note 5 to the financial statements.

(3)

Purchase
 obligations represent the minimum purchase obligation or cancellation
 charge for contractual obligations to purchase goods or
 services. For Entergy New Orleans, almost all of the total
 consists of unconditional fuel and purchased power obligations, including
 its obligations under the Unit Power Sales Agreement, which is discussed
 in Note 8 to the financial
statements.

In
addition to the contractual obligations given above, Entergy New Orleans expects
to make payments of approximately $59 million for the years 2010-2012 related to
Hurricane Katrina restoration work and its gas rebuild project, of which $34
million is expected to be incurred in 2010. Also, Entergy New Orleans
expects to contribute approximately $5.1 million to its pension plan and
approximately $5.2 million to its other postretirement plans in 2010 although
the required pension contributions will not be known with more certainty until
the January 1, 2010 valuations are completed by April 1, 2010. Also,
guidance pursuant to the Pension Protection Act of 2006 rules, effective for the
2008 plan year and beyond, continues to evolve, be interpreted through technical
corrections bills, and discussed within the industry and by congressional
lawmakers. Any changes to the Pension Protection Act as a result of
these discussions and efforts may affect the level of Entergy New Orleans’
pension contributions in the future.

The planned capital investment estimate
for Entergy New Orleans reflects capital required to support existing
business. The estimated capital expenditures are subject to periodic
review and modification and may vary based on the ongoing effects of regulatory
constraints, environmental compliance, market volatility, economic trends, and
the ability to access capital. Management provides more information
on long-term debt and preferred stock maturities in Notes 5 and 6 and to the
financial statements.

Sources
of Capital

Entergy New Orleans' sources to meet
its capital requirements include:

· 

internally
 generated funds;

· 

cash
 on hand; and

· 

debt
 and preferred stock issuances.

Entergy New Orleans may refinance or
redeem debt and preferred stock prior to maturity, to the extent market
conditions and interest and dividend rates are favorable.

 

 

348

 

Entergy
New Orleans, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Entergy
New Orleans' receivables from or (payables to) the money pool were as follows as
of December 31 for each of the following years:

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

2007

 
 

2006

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$66,149

 
 

$60,093

 
 

47,705

 
 

($37,166)

See Note
4 to the financial statements for a description of the money pool. As
discussed above in "
Bankruptcy
Proceedings
", in 2007, Entergy New Orleans issued notes due in 2010 to
satisfy its affiliate prepetition accounts payable, including its prepetition
indebtedness to the Entergy System money pool of $37.2 million.

Entergy
New Orleans has obtained short-term borrowing authorization from the FERC under
which it may borrow through October 2011, up to the aggregate amount, at any one
time outstanding, of $100 million. See Note 4 to the financial
statements for further discussion of Entergy New Orleans' short-term borrowing
limits. The long-term securities issuances of Entergy New Orleans are
limited to amounts authorized by the City Council, and the current authorization
extends through August 2010.

State and Local Rate
Regulation

The rates that Entergy New Orleans
charges for electricity and natural gas significantly influence its financial
position, results of operations, and liquidity. Entergy New Orleans
is regulated and the rates charged to its customers are determined in regulatory
proceedings. A governmental agency, the City Council, is primarily
responsible for approval of the rates charged to customers.

Formula
Rate Plans and Storm-related Riders

On July 31, 2008, Entergy New Orleans
filed an electric and gas base rate case with the City Council. On
April 2, 2009, the City Council approved a comprehensive
settlement. The settlement provided for a net $35.3 million reduction
in combined fuel and non-fuel electric revenue requirement, including conversion
of the $10.6 million voluntary recovery credit to a permanent reduction and
substantial realignment of Grand Gulf cost recovery from fuel to electric base
rates, and a $4.95 million gas base rate increase, both effective June 1, 2009,
with adjustment of the customer charges for all rate classes. A new
three-year formula rate plan was also adopted, with terms including an 11.1%
benchmark electric return on common equity (ROE) with a +/- 40 basis point
bandwidth and a 10.75% benchmark gas ROE with a +/- 50 basis point
bandwidth. Earnings outside the bandwidth reset to the midpoint
benchmark ROE, with rates changing on a prospective basis depending on whether
Entergy New Orleans is over- or under-earning. The formula rate plan
also includes a recovery mechanism for City Council-approved capacity additions,
plus provisions for extraordinary cost changes and force majeure
events.

The rate case settlement also included
$3.1 million per year in electric rates to fund the Energy Smart energy
efficiency programs. In September 2009 the City Council approved the
energy efficiency programs filed by Entergy New Orleans. The rate
settlement provides an incentive for Entergy New Orleans to meet or exceed
energy savings targets set by the City Council and provides a mechanism for
Entergy New Orleans to recover lost contribution to fixed costs associated with
the energy savings generated from the energy efficiency programs. The
programs are expected to begin in 2010.

In June 2006, Entergy New Orleans made
its annual formula rate plan filings with the City Council. The filings
presented various alternatives to reflect the effect of Entergy New Orleans'
lost customers and decreased revenue following Hurricane Katrina. The
alternative that Entergy New Orleans recommended adjusts for lost customers and
assumes that the City Council's June 2006 decision to allow recovery of all
Grand Gulf costs through the fuel adjustment clause stays in place during the
rate-effective period (a significant portion of Grand Gulf costs was previously
recovered through base rates).

 

 

349

 

Entergy
New Orleans, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

At the same time as it made its formula
rate plan filings, Entergy New Orleans also filed with the City Council a
request to implement two storm-related riders. With the first rider,
Entergy New Orleans sought to recover the electric and gas restoration costs
that it had actually spent through March 31, 2006. Entergy New
Orleans also proposed semiannual filings to update the rider for additional
restoration spending and also to consider the receipt of CDBG funds or insurance
proceeds that it may receive. With the second rider, Entergy New
Orleans sought to establish a storm reserve to provide for the risk of another
storm.

In October 2006, the City Council
approved a settlement agreement that resolved Entergy New Orleans' rate and
storm-related rider filings by providing for phased-in rate increases, while
taking into account with respect to storm restoration costs the anticipated
receipt of CDBG funding as recommended by the Louisiana Recovery
Authority. The settlement provided for a 0% increase in electric base
rates through December 2007, with a $3.9 million increase implemented in January
2008. Recovery of all Grand Gulf costs through the fuel adjustment
clause was continued. Gas base rates increased by $4.75 million in
November 2006 and increased by an additional $1.5 million in March 2007 and an
additional $4.75 million in November 2007. The settlement called for
Entergy New Orleans to file a base rate case by July 31, 2008, which it did as
discussed above. The settlement agreement discontinued the formula
rate plan and the generation performance-based plan but permitted Entergy New
Orleans to file an application to seek authority to implement formula rate plan
mechanisms no sooner than six months following the effective date of the
implementation of the base rates resulting from the July 31, 2008 base rate
case. The settlement also authorized a $75 million storm reserve for
damage from future storms, which will be created over a ten-year period through
a storm reserve rider beginning in March 2007. These storm reserve
funds will be held in a restricted escrow account.

In January 2008, Entergy New Orleans
voluntarily implemented a 6.15% base rate credit (the recovery credit) for
electric customers, which returned approximately $11.3 million to electric
customers in 2008. Entergy New Orleans was able to implement this
credit because during 2007 the recovery of New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina
was occurring faster than expected in 2006 projections. In addition,
Entergy New Orleans committed to set aside $2.5 million for an energy efficiency
program focused on community education and outreach and weatherization of
homes.

In addition to rate proceedings,
Entergy New Orleans' fuel costs recovered from customers are subject to
regulatory scrutiny. Entergy New Orleans' electric rate schedules
include a fuel adjustment tariff designed to reflect no more than targeted fuel
and purchased power costs, adjusted by a surcharge or credit for deferred fuel
expense arising from the monthly reconciliation of actual fuel and purchased
power costs incurred with fuel cost revenues billed to customers, including
carrying charges. In June 2006 the City Council authorized the
recovery of all Grand Gulf costs through Entergy New Orleans' fuel adjustment
clause (a significant portion of Grand Gulf costs was previously recovered
through base rates), and continued that authorization in approving the October
2006 formula rate plan filing settlement. Effective June 2009, the
majority of Grand Gulf costs were realigned to base rates and are no longer
flowed through the fuel adjustment clause.

Entergy New Orleans' gas rate schedules
include a purchased gas adjustment to reflect estimated gas costs for the
billing month, adjusted by a surcharge or credit similar to that included in the
electric fuel adjustment clause, including carrying charges. In
October 2005, the City Council approved modification of the gas cost collection
mechanism effective November 2005 in order to address concerns regarding its
fluctuations, particularly during the winter heating season. The
modifications are intended to minimize fluctuations in gas rates during the
winter months.

Federal
Regulation

System Agreement
Proceedings

See "
System Agreement
Proceedings
" in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries' Management's
Discussion and Analysis for discussion of the proceeding at the FERC involving
the System Agreement and of other related proceedings.

 

 

350

 

Entergy
New Orleans, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Transmission

See "
Independent Coordinator of
Transmission
" in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries' Management's
Discussion and Analysis for further discussion.

Environmental
Risks

Entergy
New Orleans' facilities and operations are subject to regulation by various
governmental authorities having jurisdiction over air quality, water quality,
control of toxic substances and hazardous solid wastes, and other environmental
matters. Management believes that Entergy New Orleans is in
substantial compliance with environmental regulations currently applicable to
its facilities and operations. Because environmental regulations are
subject to change, future compliance costs cannot be precisely
estimated.

Critical Accounting
Estimates

The
preparation of Entergy New Orleans' financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to apply
appropriate accounting policies and to make estimates and judgments that can
have a significant effect on reported financial position, results of operations,
and cash flows. Management has identified the following accounting
policies and estimates as critical because they are based on assumptions and
measurements that involve a high degree of uncertainty, and there is the
potential for future changes in the assumptions and measurements that could
produce estimates that would have a material impact on the presentation of
Entergy New Orleans' financial position or results of operations.

Unbilled
Revenue

As
discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, Entergy New Orleans records an
estimate of the revenues earned for energy delivered since the latest customer
billing. Each month the estimated unbilled revenue amounts are
recorded as revenue and a receivable, and the prior month's estimate is
reversed. The difference between the estimate of the unbilled
receivable at the beginning of the period and the end of the period is the
amount of unbilled revenue recognized during the period. The estimate
recorded is primarily based upon an estimate of customer usage during the
unbilled period and the billed price to customers in that month, including fuel
price. Therefore, revenue recognized may be affected by the estimated
price and usage at the beginning and end of each period and fuel price
fluctuations, in addition to changes in certain components of the
calculation. Effective June 2009, Entergy New Orleans reclassified
the fuel component of unbilled accounts receivable to deferred fuel and will no
longer include the fuel component in the unbilled calculation, which is in
accordance with regulatory treatment.

Qualified
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

Entergy
sponsors qualified defined benefit pension plans which cover substantially all
employees. Additionally, Entergy currently provides postretirement
health care and life insurance benefits for substantially all employees who
reach retirement age while still working for Entergy. Entergy's
reported costs of providing these benefits, as described in Note 11 to the
financial statements, are impacted by numerous factors including the provisions
of the plans, changing employee demographics, and various actuarial
calculations, assumptions, and accounting mechanisms. See the "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
" section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
Management's Discussion and Analysis for further discussion. Because
of the complexity of these calculations, the long-term nature of these
obligations, and the importance of the assumptions utilized, Entergy's estimate
of these costs is a critical accounting estimate.

 

 

351

 

Entergy
New Orleans, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Cost
Sensitivity

The
following chart reflects the sensitivity of qualified pension cost to changes in
certain actuarial assumptions (dollars in thousands):

 

 

Actuarial
 Assumption

 
 

 

Change
 in

Assumption

 
 

 

Impact
 on 2009

Qualified
 Pension Cost

 
 

Impact
 on Projected

Qualified
 Benefit

Obligation

 
 

 
 

Increase/(Decrease)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Discount
 rate

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$272

 
 

$2,903

Rate
 of return on plan assets

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$214

 
 

-

Rate
 of increase in compensation

 
 

0.25%

 
 

$133

 
 

$675

 

The
following chart reflects the sensitivity of postretirement benefit cost to
changes in certain actuarial assumptions (dollars in thousands):

 

 

Actuarial
 Assumption

 
 

 

Change
 in

Assumption

 
 

 

Impact
 on 2009

Postretirement
 Benefit Cost

 
 

Impact
 on Accumulated

Postretirement
 Benefit

Obligation

 
 

 
 

Increase/(Decrease)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Health
 care cost trend

 
 

0.25%

 
 

$221

 
 

$1,184

Discount
 rate

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$110

 
 

$1,429

Each
fluctuation above assumes that the other components of the calculation are held
constant.

Costs and
Funding

Total
qualified pension cost for Entergy New Orleans in 2009 was $1.7
million. Entergy New Orleans anticipates 2010 qualified pension cost
to be $3.6 million. Entergy New Orleans contributed $1.1 million in
qualified pension contributions in 2009 and anticipates approximately a $5.1
million pension contribution in 2010 although the required pension contributions
will not be known with more certainty until the January 1, 2010 valuations are
completed by April 1, 2010. Also, guidance pursuant to the Pension
Protection Act of 2006 rules, effective for the 2008 plan year and beyond,
continues to evolve, be interpreted through technical corrections bills, and
discussed within the industry and by congressional lawmakers. Any
changes to the Pension Protection Act as a result of these discussions and
efforts may affect the level of Entergy New Orleans’ pension contributions in
the future.

Total
postretirement health care and life insurance benefit costs for Entergy New
Orleans in 2009 were $5.9 million, including $1 million in savings due to the
estimated effect of future Medicare Part D subsidies. Entergy New
Orleans expects 2010 postretirement health care and life insurance benefit costs
to approximate $5.2 million, including $1.1 million in savings due to the
estimated effect of future Medicare Part D subsidies. Entergy New
Orleans expects to contribute approximately $5.2 million to its other
postretirement plans in 2010.

New Accounting
Pronouncements

See "
New
Accounting Pronouncements
" section of Entergy Corporation and
Subsidiaries Management's Discussion and Analysis for discussion of new
accounting pronouncements.

 

352

 

 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Entergy
New Orleans, Inc.

New
Orleans, Louisiana

We have
audited the accompanying balance sheets of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related statements of
income, retained earnings, and cash flows (pages 354 through 358 and applicable
items in pages 63 through 193) for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2009. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our
opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. as of December 31, 2009 and
2008, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 24, 2010 expressed an
unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

353

 

ENTERGY
 NEW ORLEANS, INC.

 

INCOME
 STATEMENTS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 REVENUES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electric

 

$

535,985

 

 

$

672,940

 

 

$

557,458

 

Natural
 gas

 

 

104,437

 

 

 

141,443

 

 

 

119,469

 

TOTAL

 

 

640,422

 

 

 

814,383

 

 

 

676,927

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 EXPENSES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Operation
 and Maintenance:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Fuel,
 fuel-related expenses, and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 gas
 purchased for resale

 

 

196,917

 

 

 

330,472

 

 

 

243,470

 

 Purchased
 power

 

 

198,836

 

 

 

227,065

 

 

 

198,329

 

 Other
 operation and maintenance

 

 

107,803

 

 

 

108,576

 

 

 

114,254

 

Taxes
 other than income taxes

 

 

40,476

 

 

 

41,641

 

 

 

38,439

 

Depreciation
 and amortization

 

 

33,943

 

 

 

32,756

 

 

 

32,287

 

Other
 regulatory charges - net

 

 

1,709

 

 

 

4,114

 

 

 

4,127

 

TOTAL

 

 

579,684

 

 

 

744,624

 

 

 

630,906

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 INCOME

 

 

60,738

 

 

 

69,759

 

 

 

46,021

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
 INCOME

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Allowance
 for equity funds used during construction

 

 

230

 

 

 

602

 

 

 

1,736

 

Interest
 and dividend income

 

 

3,762

 

 

 

9,664

 

 

 

11,583

 

Miscellaneous
 - net

 

 

(1,125

)

 

 

(1,432

)

 

 

(1,057

)

TOTAL

 

 

2,867

 

 

 

8,834

 

 

 

12,262

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INTEREST
 AND OTHER CHARGES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Interest
 on long-term debt

 

 

11,628

 

 

 

12,465

 

 

 

12,978

 

Other
 interest - net

 

 

5,337

 

 

 

8,517

 

 

 

8,519

 

Allowance
 for borrowed funds used during construction

 

 

(98

)

 

 

(388

)

 

 

(1,302

)

TOTAL

 

 

16,867

 

 

 

20,594

 

 

 

20,195

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INCOME
 BEFORE INCOME TAXES

 

 

46,738

 

 

 

57,999

 

 

 

38,088

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Income
 taxes

 

 

15,713

 

 

 

23,052

 

 

 

13,506

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NET
 INCOME

 

 

31,025

 

 

 

34,947

 

 

 

24,582

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Preferred
 dividend requirements and other

 

 

965

 

 

 

965

 

 

 

1,126

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EARNINGS
 APPLICABLE TO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMON
 STOCK

 

$

30,060

 

 

$

33,982

 

 

$

23,456

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

354

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 NEW ORLEANS, INC.

 

STATEMENTS
 OF CASH FLOWS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

OPERATING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net
 income

 

$

31,025

 

 

$

34,947

 

 

$

24,582

 

Adjustments
 to reconcile net income to net cash flow provided by operating
 activities:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Other
 regulatory charges - net

 

 

1,709

 

 

 

4,114

 

 

 

4,127

 

 Depreciation
 and amortization

 

 

33,943

 

 

 

32,756

 

 

 

32,287

 

 Deferred
 income taxes, investment tax credits, and non-current taxes
 accrued

 

 

54,797

 

 

 

3,420

 

 

 

30,642

 

 Changes
 in working capital:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Receivables

 

 

19,448

 

 

 

(7,857

)

 

 

11,563

 

 Fuel
 inventory

 

 

5,665

 

 

 

(3,698

)

 

 

541

 

 Accounts
 payable

 

 

(3,224

)

 

 

5,157

 

 

 

(26,746

)

 Taxes
 accrued

 

 

(18,669

)

 

 

15,365

 

 

 

2,895

 

 Interest
 accrued

 

 

19

 

 

 

(1,287

)

 

 

(12,787

)

 Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

13,751

 

 

 

(4,546

)

 

 

1,715

 

 Other
 working capital accounts

 

 

4,131

 

 

 

(2,009

)

 

 

9,473

 

 Provision
 for estimated losses and reserves

 

 

5,382

 

 

 

(3,720

)

 

 

5,944

 

 Changes
 in other regulatory assets

 

 

(2,227

)

 

 

(35,134

)

 

 

181,061

 

 Changes
 in pension and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

(5,549

)

 

 

33,838

 

 

 

(44,549

)

 Other

 

 

8,355

 

 

 

15,836

 

 

 

(13,354

)

Net
 cash flow provided by operating activities

 

 

148,556

 

 

 

87,182

 

 

 

207,394

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INVESTING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Construction
 expenditures

 

 

(61,954

)

 

 

(103,298

)

 

 

(93,676

)

Allowance
 for equity funds used during construction

 

 

230

 

 

 

602

 

 

 

1,736

 

Insurance
 proceeds

 

 

14,553

 

 

 

102,914

 

 

 

56,430

 

Proceeds
 from the sale of assets

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

10,046

 

Change
 in money pool receivable - net

 

 

(6,056

)

 

 

(12,389

)

 

 

(47,705

)

Changes
 in other investments - net

 

 

(6,621

)

 

 

2,394

 

 

 

(5,272

)

Net
 cash flow used in investing activities

 

 

(59,848

)

 

 

(9,777

)

 

 

(78,441

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FINANCING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Repayment
 on DIP credit facility

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

(51,934

)

Retirement
 of long-term debt

 

 

(728

)

 

 

(30,952

)

 

 

(208

)

Dividends
 paid:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Common
 stock

 

 

(32,900

)

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 Preferred
 stock

 

 

(965

)

 

 

(965

)

 

 

(1,894

)

Other

 

 

(368

)

 

 

(54

)

 

 

-

 

Net
 cash flow used in financing activities

 

 

(34,961

)

 

 

(31,971

)

 

 

(54,036

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net
 increase in cash and cash equivalents

 

 

53,747

 

 

 

45,434

 

 

 

74,917

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 

 

137,444

 

 

 

92,010

 

 

 

17,093

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at end of period

 

$

191,191

 

 

$

137,444

 

 

$

92,010

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUPPLEMENTAL
 DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 paid/(received) during the period for:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Interest
 - net of amount capitalized

 

$

16,302

 

 

$

21,557

 

 

$

24,450

 

 Income
 taxes

 

$

(22,054

)

 

$

5,821

 

 

$

(3,571

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

355

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 NEW ORLEANS, INC.

 

BALANCE
 SHEETS

 

ASSETS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

December
 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT
 ASSETS

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Cash

 

$

1,179

 

 

$

1,119

 

 Temporary
 cash investments

 

 

190,012

 

 

 

136,325

 

 Total
 cash and cash equivalents

 

 

191,191

 

 

 

137,444

 

Accounts
 receivable:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Customer

 

 

41,284

 

 

 

53,934

 

 Allowance
 for doubtful accounts

 

 

(1,166

)

 

 

(1,112

)

 Associated
 companies

 

 

78,670

 

 

 

70,608

 

 Other

 

 

2,299

 

 

 

3,270

 

 Accrued
 unbilled revenues

 

 

20,328

 

 

 

28,107

 

 Total
 accounts receivable

 

 

141,415

 

 

 

154,807

 

Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

3,996

 

 

 

21,827

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes

 

 

2,584

 

 

 

-

 

Fuel
 inventory - at average cost

 

 

2,533

 

 

 

8,198

 

Materials
 and supplies - at average cost

 

 

9,674

 

 

 

9,472

 

Prepayments
 and other

 

 

4,311

 

 

 

4,483

 

TOTAL

 

 

355,704

 

 

 

336,231

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
 PROPERTY AND INVESTMENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Investment
 in affiliates - at equity

 

 

3,259

 

 

 

3,259

 

Non-utility
 property at cost (less accumulated depreciation)

 

 

1,016

 

 

 

1,016

 

Storm
 reserve escrow account

 

 

9,499

 

 

 

2,878

 

TOTAL

 

 

13,774

 

 

 

7,153

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UTILITY
 PLANT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electric

 

 

789,367

 

 

 

767,327

 

Natural
 gas

 

 

199,847

 

 

 

197,231

 

Construction
 work in progress

 

 

21,148

 

 

 

22,314

 

TOTAL
 UTILITY PLANT

 

 

1,010,362

 

 

 

986,872

 

Less
 - accumulated depreciation and amortization

 

 

514,609

 

 

 

542,499

 

UTILITY
 PLANT - NET

 

 

495,753

 

 

 

444,373

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DEFERRED
 DEBITS AND OTHER ASSETS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulatory
 assets:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

4,080

 

 

 

-

 

 Other
 regulatory assets

 

 

125,686

 

 

 

208,524

 

Other

 

 

6,079

 

 

 

7,254

 

TOTAL

 

 

135,845

 

 

 

215,778

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
 ASSETS

 

$

1,001,076

 

 

$

1,003,535

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

356

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 NEW ORLEANS, INC.

BALANCE
 SHEETS

LIABILITIES
 AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

December
 31,

 
 

 

2009

 

 

 

2008

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT
 LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Currently
 maturing long-term debt

 

$

30,000

 

 

$

-

 

Notes
 payable - associated companies

 

 

74,230

 

 

 

-

 

Accounts
 payable:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

28,138

 

 

 

24,523

 

 Other

 

 

23,653

 

 

 

39,327

 

Customer
 deposits

 

 

20,505

 

 

 

18,944

 

Taxes
 accrued

 

 

1,677

 

 

 

20,346

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes

 

 

-

 

 

 

7,387

 

Interest
 accrued

 

 

3,949

 

 

 

3,930

 

System
 agreement cost equalization

 

 

6,000

 

 

 

-

 

Other

 

 

5,803

 

 

 

9,203

 

TOTAL
 CURRENT LIABILITIES

 

 

193,955

 

 

 

123,660

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NON-CURRENT
 LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes and taxes accrued

 

 

147,496

 

 

 

112,827

 

Accumulated
 deferred investment tax credits

 

 

2,153

 

 

 

2,471

 

Regulatory
 liability for income taxes - net

 

 

58,970

 

 

 

72,046

 

Other
 regulatory liabilities

 

 

43,148

 

 

 

12,040

 

Retirement
 cost liability

 

 

3,174

 

 

 

2,966

 

Accumulated
 provisions

 

 

15,991

 

 

 

10,609

 

Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

43,773

 

 

 

49,322

 

Long-term
 debt

 

 

168,023

 

 

 

272,973

 

Gas
 system rebuild insurance proceeds

 

 

90,116

 

 

 

98,418

 

Other

 

 

5,911

 

 

 

14,997

 

TOTAL
 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES

 

 

578,755

 

 

 

648,669

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Commitments
 and Contingencies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Preferred
 stock without sinking fund

 

 

19,780

 

 

 

19,780

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SHAREHOLDERS'
 EQUITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Common
 stock, $4 par value, authorized 10,000,000

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 shares;
 issued and outstanding 8,435,900 shares in 2009

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 and
 2008

 

 

33,744

 

 

 

33,744

 

Paid-in
 capital

 

 

36,294

 

 

 

36,294

 

Retained
 earnings

 

 

138,548

 

 

 

141,388

 

TOTAL

 

 

208,586

 

 

 

211,426

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

 

$

1,001,076

 

 

$

1,003,535

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

357

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 NEW ORLEANS, INC.

 

STATEMENTS
 OF RETAINED EARNINGS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Retained
 Earnings, January 1

 

$

141,388

 

 

$

107,406

 

 

$

83,950

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Add:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Net
 income

 

 

31,025

 

 

 

34,947

 

 

 

24,582

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deduct:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Dividends
 declared on common stock

 

 

32,900

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 Dividends
 declared on preferred stock

 

 

965

 

 

 

965

 

 

 

1,126

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Retained
 Earnings, December 31

 

$

138,548

 

 

$

141,388

 

 

$

107,406

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

358

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 NEW ORLEANS, INC.

 

SELECTED
 FINANCIAL DATA - FIVE-YEAR COMPARISON

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 

2006

 

 

2005

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Operating
 revenues

 

$

640,422

 

 

$

814,383

 

 

$

676,927

 

 

$

571,154

 

 

$

673,326

 

Net
 Income

 

$

31,025

 

 

$

34,947

 

 

$

24,582

 

 

$

5,344

 

 

$

1,250

 

Total
 assets

 

$

1,001,076

 

 

$

1,003,535

 

 

$

876,195

 

 

$

921,151

 

 

$

1,120,121

 

Long-term
 obligations (1)

 

$

168,023

 

 

$

272,973

 

 

$

273,912

 

 

$

229,875

 

 

$

229,859

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1) Includes
 long-term debt (excluding currently maturing debt).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

2009

 

 

 

2008

 

 

 

2007

 

 

 

2006

 

 

 

2005

 

 
 

 

(Dollars
 In Millions)

 

Electric
 Operating Revenues:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Residential

 

$

168

 

 

$

172

 

 

$

142

 

 

$

106

 

 

$

150

 

 Commercial

 

 

166

 

 

 

194

 

 

 

181

 

 

 

165

 

 

 

145

 

 Industrial

 

 

37

 

 

 

48

 

 

 

47

 

 

 

45

 

 

 

32

 

 Governmental

 

 

70

 

 

 

79

 

 

 

72

 

 

 

59

 

 

 

59

 

 Total
 retail

 

 

441

 

 

 

493

 

 

 

442

 

 

 

375

 

 

 

386

 

 Sales
 for resale:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

87

 

 

 

161

 

 

 

103

 

 

 

46

 

 

 

117

 

 Non-associated
 companies

 

 

1

 

 

 

2

 

 

 

1

 

 

 

45

 

 

 

21

 

 Other

 

 

7

 

 

 

17

 

 

 

11

 

 

 

5

 

 

 

12

 

 Total

 

$

536

 

 

$

673

 

 

$

557

 

 

$

471

 

 

$

536

 

Billed
 Electric Energy Sales (GWh):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Residential

 

 

1,577

 

 

 

1,394

 

 

 

1,221

 

 

 

914

 

 

 

1,616

 

 Commercial

 

 

1,813

 

 

 

1,774

 

 

 

1,763

 

 

 

1,666

 

 

 

1,798

 

 Industrial

 

 

526

 

 

 

541

 

 

 

568

 

 

 

547

 

 

 

498

 

 Governmental

 

 

805

 

 

 

774

 

 

 

747

 

 

 

632

 

 

 

800

 

 Total
 retail

 

 

4,721

 

 

 

4,483

 

 

 

4,299

 

 

 

3,759

 

 

 

4,712

 

 Sales
 for resale:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

1,528

 

 

 

1,336

 

 

 

995

 

 

 

519

 

 

 

1,705

 

 Non-associated
 companies

 

 

15

 

 

 

25

 

 

 

15

 

 

 

779

 

 

 

336

 

 Total

 

 

6,264

 

 

 

5,844

 

 

 

5,309

 

 

 

5,057

 

 

 

6,753

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

359

 

 

 

ENTERGY
TEXAS, INC.

MANAGEMENT'S
FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Jurisdictional Separation of
Entergy Gulf States, Inc. into Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy
Texas

Effective December 31, 2007, Entergy
Gulf States, Inc. completed a jurisdictional separation into two vertically
integrated utility companies, one operating under the sole retail jurisdiction
of the PUCT, Entergy Texas, and the other operating under the sole retail
jurisdiction of the LPSC, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana. Management
believes that the jurisdictional separation will better align Entergy Gulf
States, Inc.'s Louisiana and Texas operations to serve customers in those states
and to operate consistent with state-specific regulatory requirements as the
utility regulatory environments in those jurisdictions evolve. The
jurisdictional separation provides for regulation of each separated company by a
single retail regulator, which should reduce regulatory complexity.

Entergy Texas now owns all Entergy Gulf
States, Inc. distribution and transmission assets located in Texas, the
gas-fired generating plants located in Texas, undivided 42.5% ownership shares
of Entergy Gulf States, Inc.'s 70% ownership interest in Nelson 6 and 42%
ownership interest in Big Cajun 2, Unit 3, which are coal-fired generating
plants located in Louisiana, and other assets and contract rights to the extent
related to utility operations in Texas. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana
now owns all of the remaining assets that were owned by Entergy Gulf States,
Inc. On a book value basis, approximately 58.1% of the Entergy Gulf
States, Inc. assets were allocated to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and
approximately 41.9% were allocated to Entergy Texas.

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana remains primarily liable for all of the long-term debt
issued by Entergy Gulf States, Inc. that was outstanding on December 31,
2007. Under a debt assumption agreement with Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana, Entergy Texas assumed its pro rata share of this long-term debt,
which was $1.079 billion, or approximately 46%, of which $168 million remains
outstanding at December 31, 2009. The pro rata share of the long-term
debt assumed by Entergy Texas was determined by first determining the net assets
for each company on a book value basis, and then calculating a debt assumption
ratio that resulted in the common equity ratios for each company being
approximately the same as the Entergy Gulf States, Inc. common equity ratio
immediately prior to the jurisdictional separation. Entergy Texas'
debt assumption does not discharge Entergy Gulf States Louisiana's liability for
the long-term debt. To secure its debt assumption obligations,
Entergy Texas granted to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana a first lien on Entergy
Texas' assets that were previously subject to the Entergy Gulf States, Inc.
mortgage. Entergy Texas has until December 31, 2010 to repay the
assumed debt. In addition, Entergy Texas, as the owner of Entergy
Gulf States Reconstruction Funding I, LLC ("EGSRF I"), will report the $329.5
million of senior secured transition bonds ("securitization bonds") issued by
EGSRF I as long-term debt on its consolidated balance sheet. The
securitization bonds are non-recourse to Entergy Texas.

Entergy
Texas will purchase from Entergy Gulf States Louisiana pursuant to a
life-of-unit purchased power agreement (PPA) a 42.5% share of capacity and
energy from the 70% of River Bend subject to retail
regulation. Entergy Texas was allocated a share of River Bend's
nuclear and environmental liabilities that is identical to the share of the
plant's output purchased by Entergy Texas under the PPA. Entergy Gulf
States Louisiana will purchase a 57.5% share of capacity and energy from the
gas-fired generating plants owned by Entergy Texas, and Entergy Texas will
purchase a 42.5% share of capacity and energy from the gas-fired generating
plants owned by Entergy Gulf States Louisiana. The PPAs associated
with the gas-fired generating plants will terminate when retail open access
commences in Entergy Texas' jurisdiction or when the unit(s) is no longer
dispatched by the Entergy System. If Entergy Texas implements retail
open access, it will terminate its participation in the System Agreement,
except for the portion of the System Agreement related to transmission
equalization. The dispatch and operation of the generating plants
will not change as a result of the jurisdictional separation.

Because the jurisdictional separation
was a transaction involving entities under common control, Entergy Texas
recognized the assets and liabilities allocated to it at their carrying amounts
in the accounts of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. at the time of the jurisdictional
separation. Entergy Texas' financial statements report results of
operations for 2007 as though the jurisdictional separation had occurred at the
beginning of 2007, and presents its 2007 other financial information as of the
beginning of 2007 as though the assets and liabilities had been allocated at
that date. Financial statements and financial information presented for
prior periods have also been presented on that basis to furnish comparative
information.

 

360

 

Entergy
Texas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Results of
Operations

Net
Income

2009 Compared to
2008

Net income increased by $5.9 million
primarily due to higher net revenue and higher other income, partially offset by
higher other operation and maintenance expenses and higher interest and other
charges.

2008 Compared to
2007

Net income decreased $1 million
primarily due to higher depreciation and amortization expenses and lower other
income, partially offset by lower interest and other charges and a lower
effective income tax rate.

Net
Revenue

2009 Compared to
2008

Net revenue consists of operating
revenues net of: 1) fuel, fuel-related expenses, and gas purchased for resale,
2) purchased power expenses, and 3) other regulatory
charges. Following is an analysis of the change in net revenue
comparing 2009 to 2008.

 
 

 
 

Amount

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

 
 

 
 

 
 

2008
 net revenue

 
 

$440.9 

Retail
 electric price

 
 

32.1 

Volume/weather

 
 

19.0 

Net
 wholesale revenue

 
 

15.0 

Rough
 production cost equalization

 
 

(18.6)

Reserve
 equalization

 
 

(8.1)

Other

 
 

4.8 

2009
 net revenue

 
 

$485.1 

The retail electric price variance is
primarily due to rate increases effective late-January 2009 and an Energy
Efficiency rider which became effective December 31, 2008, which is
substantially offset in other operation and maintenance expenses. See
Note 2 to the financial statements for further discussion of the rate
increases.

The volume/weather variance is
primarily due to the effect of more favorable weather on billed and unbilled
sales in 2009 compared to the same period in 2008 and an increase in unbilled
sales volume, including the effects of Hurricane Ike which decreased sales
volume in 2008.

The net wholesale revenue variance is
primarily due to higher capacity revenue as a result of the purchased power
agreements between Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas and increased
volume to municipal and co-op customers.

As discussed further in Note 2 to the
financial statements, the rough production cost equalization variance is due to
an additional $18.6 million allocation of 2007 rough production cost
equalization receipts ordered by the PUCT to Texas retail customers over what
was originally allocated to Entergy Texas prior to the jurisdictional separation
of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. into Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy
Texas, effective December 2007.

The reserve equalization variance is
primarily due to increased reserve equalization expense related to changes in
the Entergy System generation mix compared to the same period in
2008.

 

 

361

 

Entergy
Texas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Gross
operating revenues, fuel and purchased power expenses, and other regulatory
charges

Gross operating revenues decreased
primarily due to a decrease of $285.3 million in fuel cost recovery revenues
primarily attributable to lower fuel rates and a decrease in affiliated
wholesale revenue of $141.8 million due to a decrease in the average price of
energy available for resale sales.

Fuel and
purchased power expenses decreased primarily due to decreases in the average
market prices of natural gas and purchased power, partially offset by an
increase in deferred fuel expense due to fuel and purchased power expense
decreases in excess of lower fuel cost recovery revenues.

Other regulatory charges increased
primarily due to rough production cost equalization charges as described
above.

2008 Compared to
2007

Net revenue consists of operating
revenues net of: 1) fuel, fuel-related expenses, and gas purchased for resale,
2) purchased power expenses, and 3) other regulatory
charges. Following is an analysis of the change in net revenue
comparing 2008 to 2007.

 
 

 
 

Amount

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

 
 

 
 

 
 

2007
 net revenue

 
 

$442.3 

Volume/weather

 
 

(4.6)

Reserve
 equalization

 
 

(3.3)

Securitization
 transition charge

 
 

9.1 

Fuel
 recovery

 
 

7.5 

Other

 
 

(10.1)

2008
 net revenue

 
 

$440.9 

The volume/weather variance is
primarily due to decreased usage during the unbilled sales
period. See "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
" below and Note 1 to the financial statements for
further discussion of the accounting for unbilled revenues.

The reserve equalization variance is
primarily due to lower reserve equalization revenue related to changes in the
Entergy System generation mix compared to the same period in 2007.

The securitization transition charge
variance is primarily due to the issuance of securitization bonds. In
June 2007, Entergy Gulf States Reconstruction Funding I, a company wholly-owned
and consolidated by Entergy Texas, issued securitization bonds and with the
proceeds purchased from Entergy Texas the transition property, which is the
right to recover from customers through a transition charge amounts sufficient
to service the securitization bonds. See Note 5 to the financial
statements for additional information regarding the securitization
bonds.

The fuel recovery variance is primarily
due to a reserve for potential rate refunds made in the first quarter 2007 as a
result of a PUCT ruling related to the application of past PUCT rulings
addressing transition to competition in Texas.

The other variance is primarily caused
by various operational effects of the jurisdictional separation on revenues and
fuel and purchased power expenses.

 

 

362

 

Entergy
Texas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Gross
operating revenues, fuel and purchased power expenses, and other regulatory
charges

Gross operating revenues increased
$229.3 million primarily due to the following reasons:

· 

an
 increase of $157 million in fuel cost recovery revenues due to higher fuel
 rates and increased usage, partially offset by interim fuel refunds to
 customers for fuel cost recovery over-collections through November
 2007. The refund was distributed over a two-month period
 beginning February 2008. The interim refund and the PUCT
 approval is discussed in Note 2 to the financial
 statements;

· 

an
 increase of $37.1 million in affiliated wholesale revenue primarily due to
 increases in the cost of energy;

· 

an
 increase in transition charge amounts collected from customers to service
 the securitization bonds as discussed above. See Note 5 to the
 financial statements for additional information regarding the
 securitization bonds; and

· 

implementation
 of an interim surcharge to collect $10.3 million in under-recovered
 incremental purchased capacity costs incurred through July
 2007. The surcharge was collected over a two-month period
 beginning February 2008. The incremental capacity recovery
 rider and PUCT approval is discussed in Note 2 to the financial
 statements.

Fuel and purchased power expenses
increased primarily due to an increase in power purchases as a result of the
purchased power agreements between Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy
Texas and an increase in the average market prices of purchased power and
natural gas, substantially offset by a decrease in deferred fuel expense as a
result of decreased recovery from customers of fuel costs.

Other regulatory charges increased
primarily due to an increase of $6.9 million in the recovery of bond expenses
related to the securitization bonds. The recovery became effective
July 2007. See Note 5 to the financial statements for additional
information regarding the securitization bonds.

Other
Income Statement Variances

2009 Compared to
2008

Other operation and maintenance
expenses increased primarily due to:

· 

an
 increase of $11.4 million in fossil expenses primarily due to higher plant
 maintenance costs and plant
outages;

· 

an
 increase of $6.8 million due to the Hurricane Ike and Hurricane Gustav
 storm cost recovery settlement agreement, as discussed below under "
Hurricane Ike and
 Hurricane Gustav
";

· 

an
 increase of $1.8 million in transmission spending primarily for costs
 related to the Independent Coordinator of Transmission and substation
 maintenance;

· 

an
 increase of $1.8 million in local easement fees as the result of higher
 gross revenues in certain locations within the Texas jurisdiction;
 and

· 

an
 increase of $1.7 million in customer service costs primarily as a result
 of write-offs of uncollectible customer
 accounts.

Other income increased primarily due to
carrying charges on Hurricane Ike storm restoration costs as authorized by Texas
legislation in the second quarter 2009, partially offset by a decrease in taxes
collected on advances for transmission projects and a decrease in interest
earned on money pool investments. See Note 2 to the financial
statements for further discussion of Hurricane Ike storm cost recovery
filings.

Interest expense increased primarily
due to an increase in long-term debt outstanding as a result of the issuance of
$500 million of 7.125% Series mortgage bonds in January 2009 and the issuance of
$150 million of 7.875% Series mortgage bonds in May 2009, partially offset by
pay-down of debt assumption agreement liabilities.

 

 

363

 

Entergy
Texas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

2008 Compared to
2007

Other
operation and maintenance expenses decreased primarily due to:

· 

a
 decrease of $4.7 million in transmission spending primarily due to lower
 transmission equalization expenses;

· 

a
 decrease of $3.9 million in plant maintenance costs;
 and

· 

a
 decrease of $3.6 million in customer service support costs, including a
 decrease in customer account
write-offs.

The
decrease was partially offset by an increase of $7.3 million due to the
write-off of certain disallowed costs resulting from the December 2008 rate case
settlement agreement filed with the PUCT and an increase of $1.7 in payroll and
payroll-related costs. The rate case settlement agreement is
discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements.

Depreciation
and amortization expenses increased primarily due to an increase in plant in
service.

Other income decreased primarily due to
the absence of carrying charges on storm restoration costs that were approved by
the PUCT in the fourth quarter 2006 and a decrease in interest earned on money
pool investments. In June 2007, Entergy Gulf States Reconstruction
Funding I, LLC issued securitization bonds and the carrying charges
ended. The PUCT approval of carrying charges, the securitization
filing and the approval for the recovery of reconstruction costs are discussed
in Note 2 to the financial statements. The decrease was partially
offset by an increase in taxes collected on advances for transmission
projects.

Interest
and other charges decreased primarily due to the absence of interest recorded on
advances from independent power producers per a FERC order during the first
quarter 2007 and a decrease in debt outstanding under the debt assumption
agreement. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in
interest charges recorded on the securitization bonds which were issued during
the second quarter 2007. See Note 5 to the financial statements for
additional information regarding the securitization bonds.

Income
Taxes

The effective income tax rates were
36.6%, 32.7%, and 38.1% for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. See
Note 3 to the financial statements for a reconciliation of the federal statutory
rate of 35% to the effective income tax rate.

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Cash
Flow

Cash flows for the years ended December
31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 were as follows:

 
 

 
 

 
 

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

2007

 
 

 
 

 
 

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 
 

$2,239 

 
 

$297,082 

 
 

$77,115 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 flow provided by (used in):

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Operating
 activities

 
 

287,533 

 
 

1,444 

 
 

175,991 

 
 

Investing
 activities

 
 

(216,649)

 
 

(116,887)

 
 

(234,716)

 
 

Financing
 activities

 
 

127,580 

 
 

(179,400)

 
 

278,692 

 
 

 Net
 increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 
 

198,464 

 
 

(294,843)

 
 

219,967 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at end of period

 
 

$200,703

 
 

$2,239 

 
 

$297,082 

 

 

364

 

Entergy
Texas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Operating
Activities

Cash flow provided by operating
activities increased $286.1 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due
to:

· 

the
 timing of collection of receivables from
 customers;

· 

increased
 recovery of deferred fuel costs. The increased fuel recovery
 was primarily caused by the $71 million fuel cost over-recovery refund in
 2008 that is discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, in addition
 to the over-recovery of fuel costs in 2009 compared to
 2008;

· 

income
 tax refunds of $72.3 million in 2009 compared to income tax payments of
 $762 thousand in 2008; and

· 

a
 decrease of $15.3 million in pension
 contributions.

The
increase was partially offset by Hurricane Ike restoration spending in
2008.

Cash flow
provided by operating activities decreased $174.5 million in 2008 compared to
2007 primarily due to Hurricane Ike restoration spending, decreased recovery of
deferred fuel costs, and an increase of $9.9 million in pension contributions,
partially offset by the timing of collections of receivables from customers and
payments to vendors. The decreased fuel recovery was primarily caused
by the $71 million fuel cost over-recovery refund that is discussed in Note 2 to
the financial statements, in addition to the over-recovery of fuel costs for the
year ended December 31, 2007 compared to under-recovering for the year ended
December 31, 2008. Fuel prices increased and due to the time lag
before the fuel recovery rate increases in response, Entergy Texas had
under-recovered fuel costs in 2008.

Investing
Activities

Cash flow used in investing activities
increased $99.8 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to money pool
activity, partially offset by higher construction expenditures in 2008 due to
Hurricane Ike and insurance proceeds received in 2009 relating to Hurricane
Ike.

Increases in Entergy Texas' receivable
from the money pool are a use of cash flow, and Entergy Texas' receivable from
the money pool increased by $69.3 million in 2009 compared to decreasing by
$154.2 million in 2008. The money pool is an inter-company borrowing
arrangement designed to reduce the Utility subsidiaries' need for external
short-term borrowings.

Cash flow used in investing activities
decreased $117.8 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to money pool
activity, partially offset by an increase in distribution construction
expenditures primarily due to Hurricane Ike.

Decreases in Entergy Texas' receivable
from the money pool are a source of cash flow, and Entergy Texas' receivable
from the money pool decreased by $154.2 million for 2008 compared to increasing
by $56.9 million for 2007.

Financing
Activities

Financing activities provided cash of
$127.6 million for 2009 compared to using cash of $179.4 million for 2008
primarily due to:

· 

the
 issuance of $545.9 million of securitization bonds in November
 2009. See Note 5 to the financial statements for additional
 information regarding the securitization
bonds;

· 

the
 issuance of $500 million of 7.125% Series Mortgage Bonds in January
 2009;

· 

the
 issuance of $150 million of 7.875% Series Mortgage Bonds in May 2009;
 and

· 

$150
 million of capital returned to Entergy Corporation in February
 2008. After the effects of Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane
 Rita, Entergy Corporation made a $300 million capital contribution to
 Entergy Gulf States, Inc. in 2005, which was part of Entergy's financing
 plan that provided liquidity and capital resources to Entergy and its
 subsidiaries while storm restoration cost recovery was
 pursued.

 

 

365

 

Entergy
Texas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

The cash
provided was partially offset by:

· 

the
 retirement of $619.9 million of long term debt in 2009 compared to $327.5
 million in 2008;

· 

the
 repayment of $100 million outstanding on Entergy Texas' credit facility in
 February 2009 as compared to borrowings of $100 million on Entergy Texas'
 credit facility in 2008;

· 

the
 repayment of Entergy Texas' $160 million note payable from Entergy
 Corporation in January 2009;

· 

an
 increase of $107.5 million in common stock dividends paid;
 and

· 

money
 pool activity.

Decreases
in Entergy Texas' payable to the money pool are a use of cash flow, and Entergy
Texas' payable to the money pool decreased by $50.8 million in 2009 compared to
increasing by $50.8 million in 2008. The money pool is an
inter-company borrowing arrangement designed to reduce Entergy's subsidiaries
need for external short-term borrowings.

Financing activities used cash of
$179.4 million for 2008 compared to providing cash of $278.7 million for 2007
primarily due to:

· 

the
 issuance of $329.5 million of securitization bonds in June
 2007. See Note 5 to the financial statements for additional
 information regarding the securitization
bonds;

· 

the
 retirement of $327.5 million of long-term debt in 2008;
 and

· 

$150
 million of capital returned to Entergy Corporation in February
 2008. After the effects of Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane
 Rita, Entergy Corporation made a $300 million capital contribution to
 Entergy Gulf States, Inc. in 2005, which was part of Entergy's financing
 plan that provided liquidity and capital resources to Entergy and its
 subsidiaries while storm restoration cost recovery was
 pursued.

The use
of cash was partially offset by:

· 

borrowing
 $160 million from Entergy Corporation in December
 2008;

· 

borrowings
 of $100 million on Entergy Texas' credit facility;
 and

· 

money
 pool activity.

Increases
in Entergy Texas' payable to the money pool are a source of cash flow, and
Entergy Texas' payable to the money pool increased by $50.8 million for
2008.

Capital
Structure

Entergy
Texas' capitalization is balanced between equity and debt, as shown in the
following table. The increase in the debt to capital ratio for
Entergy Texas as of December 31, 2009 is primarily due to the issuance of $500
million 7.125% Series mortgage bonds in January 2009, the issuance of $150
million 7.875% Series mortgage bonds in May 2009, and the issuance of $545.9
million senior secured transition bonds (securitization bonds) in November 2009
(which are non-recourse to Entergy Texas), partially offset by the repayment of
Entergy Texas' $160 million note payable from Entergy Corporation in January
2009, the repayment of $100 million outstanding on Entergy Texas' credit
facility in February 2009, and the retirement of $619.9 million of long-term
debt prior to maturity.

 
 

 
 

December
 31,

 2009

 
 

December
 31,

 2008

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Net
 debt to net capital

 
 

63.3%

 
 

59.9%

Effect
 of subtracting cash from debt

 
 

3.0%

 
 

0.0%

Debt
 to capital

 
 

66.3%

 
 

59.9%

 

 

366

 

Entergy
Texas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Net debt
consists of debt less cash and cash equivalents. Debt consists of
notes payable and long-term debt, including the currently maturing portion and
also including the debt assumption liability. Capital consists of
debt and shareholders' equity. Net capital consists of capital less
cash and cash equivalents. Entergy Texas uses the net debt to net
capital ratio in analyzing its financial condition and believes it provides
useful information to its investors and creditors in evaluating Entergy Texas'
financial condition.

Uses
of Capital

Entergy Texas requires capital
resources for:

· 

construction
 and other capital investments;

·
 

debt
 maturities, including payments under the debt assumption agreement with
 Entergy Gulf States Louisiana;

· 

working
 capital purposes, including the financing of fuel and purchased power
 costs; and

· 

dividend
 and interest payments.

Following
are the amounts of Entergy Texas' planned construction and other capital
investments, existing debt and lease obligations (includes estimated interest
payments), and other purchase obligations:

 
 

2010

 
 

2011-2012

 
 

2013-2014

 
 

after
 2014

 
 

Total

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

Planned
 construction and

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 capital
 investment (1)

$180

 
 

$425

 
 

N/A

 
 

N/A

 
 

$605

 
 

Long-term
 debt (2)

$260

 
 

$166

 
 

$219

 
 

$2,054

 
 

$2,699

 
 

Operating
 leases

$4

 
 

$8

 
 

$6

 
 

$2

 
 

$20

 
 

Purchase
 obligations (3)

$52

 
 

$130

 
 

$117

 
 

$239

 
 

$538

 
 

(1)

Includes
 approximately $106 million annually for maintenance capital, which is
 planned spending on routine capital projects that are necessary to support
 reliability of service, equipment or systems and to support normal
 customer growth.

(2)

Includes
 estimated interest payments. Long-term debt is discussed in
 Note 5 to the financial statements.

(3)

Purchase
 obligations represent the minimum purchase obligation or cancellation
 charge for contractual obligations to purchase goods or
 services. For Entergy Texas, it primarily includes
 unconditional fuel and purchased power
 obligations.

In
addition to the contractual obligations given above, Entergy Texas expects to
contribute approximately $9.7 million to its pension plans and approximately
$7.7 million to other postretirement plans in 2010 although the required pension
contributions will not be known with more certainty until the January 1, 2010
valuations are completed by April 1, 2010. Also, guidance pursuant to
the Pension Protection Act of 2006 rules, effective for the 2008 plan year and
beyond, continues to evolve, be interpreted through technical corrections bills,
and discussed within the industry and by congressional lawmakers. Any
changes to the Pension Protection Act as a result of these discussions and
efforts may affect the level of Entergy Texas’ pension contributions in the
future.

Entergy's Utility supply plan
initiative will continue to seek to transform its generation portfolio with new
or repowered generation resources. Opportunities resulting from the
supply plan initiative, including new projects or the exploration of alternative
financing sources, could result in increases or decreases in the capital
expenditure estimates given above. The estimated capital expenditures
are subject to periodic review and modification and may vary based on the
ongoing effects of regulatory constraints, environmental compliance, market
volatility, economic trends, business restructuring, and the ability to access
capital. Management provides more information on long-term debt and
preferred stock maturities in Notes 5 and 6 to the financial
statements.

As a wholly-owned subsidiary, Entergy
Texas pays dividends to Entergy Corporation from its earnings at a percentage
determined monthly.

 

 

367

 

Entergy
Texas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Sources
of Capital

Entergy Texas' sources to meet its
capital requirements include:

· 

internally
 generated funds;

· 

cash
 on hand;

· 

debt
 or preferred stock issuances; and

·
 

bank
 financing under new or existing
facilities.

Entergy Texas may refinance or redeem
debt prior to maturity, to the extent market conditions and interest and
dividend rates are favorable.

All debt and common and preferred stock
issuances by Entergy Texas require prior regulatory
approval. Preferred stock and debt issuances are also subject to
issuance tests set forth in its corporate charter, bond indentures, and other
agreements. Entergy Texas has sufficient capacity under these tests
to meet its foreseeable capital needs.

Entergy
Texas' receivables from or (payables to) the money pool were as follows as of
December 31 for each of the following years:

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

2007

 
 

2006

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$69,317

 
 

($50,794)

 
 

$154,176

 
 

$97,277

See Note
4 to the financial statements for a description of the money pool.

Entergy
Texas has a credit facility in the amount of $100 million scheduled to expire in
August 2012. No borrowings were outstanding under the facility as of
December 31, 2009.

Entergy Texas has obtained short-term
borrowing authorization from the FERC under which it may borrow through October
2011, up to the aggregate amount, at any one time outstanding, of $200
million. See Note 4 to the financial statements for further
discussion of Entergy Texas' short-term borrowing limits. Entergy
Texas has also obtained an order from the FERC authorizing long-term securities
issuances through July 2011.

In December 2008, Entergy Texas
borrowed $160 million from its parent company, Entergy Corporation, under a $300
million revolving credit facility pursuant to an Inter-Company Credit Agreement
between Entergy Corporation and Entergy Texas. This borrowing would
have matured on December 3, 2013. Entergy Texas used these
borrowings, together with other available corporate funds, to pay at maturity
the portion of the $350 million Floating Rate series of First Mortgage Bonds due
December 2008 that had been assumed by Entergy Texas, and that bond series is no
longer outstanding. In January 2009, Entergy Texas repaid its $160
million note payable to Entergy Corporation with the proceeds from the $500
million bond issuance discussed above.

Hurricane Ike and Hurricane
Gustav

In September 2008, Hurricane Ike caused
catastrophic damage to Entergy Texas' service territory. The storm
resulted in widespread power outages, significant damage to distribution,
transmission, and generation infrastructure, and the loss of sales during the
power outages. Entergy Texas filed an application in April 2009
seeking a determination that $577.5 million of Hurricane Ike and Hurricane
Gustav restoration costs are recoverable, including estimated costs for work to
be completed. On August 5, 2009, Entergy Texas submitted to the ALJ
an unopposed settlement agreement intended to resolve all issues in the storm
cost recovery case. Under the terms of the agreement $566.4 million,
plus carrying costs, are eligible for recovery. Insurance proceeds
will be credited as an offset to the securitized amount. Of the $11.1
million difference between Entergy Texas' request and the amount agreed to,
which is part of the black box agreement and not directly attributable to any
specific individual issues raised, $6.8 million is operation and
maintenance expense for which Entergy Texas recorded a charge in the second
quarter 2009. The remaining $4.3 million was recorded as utility
plant. The PUCT approved the settlement in August 2009, and in
September 2009 the PUCT approved recovery of the costs, plus carrying costs, by
securitization. See Note 5 to the financial statements for a
discussion of the November 2009 issuance of the securitization
bonds.

 

 

368

 

Entergy
Texas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

In the third quarter 2009, Entergy
settled with its insurer on its Hurricane Ike claim and Entergy Texas received
$75.5 million in proceeds (Entergy received a total of $76.5
million).

Hurricane
Rita

In September 2005, Hurricane Rita hit
Entergy Texas' service territory. The storm resulted in power
outages; significant damage to electric distribution, transmission, and
generation infrastructure; and the temporary loss of sales and customers due to
mandatory evacuations. In July 2006, Entergy Texas filed an
application with the PUCT with respect to its Hurricane Rita reconstruction
costs incurred through March 2006. The filing asked the PUCT to
determine the amount of reasonable and necessary hurricane reconstruction costs
eligible for securitization and recovery, approve the recovery of carrying
costs, and approve the manner in which Entergy Texas allocates those costs among
its retail customer classes. In December 2006, the PUCT approved $381
million of reasonable and necessary hurricane reconstruction costs incurred
through March 31, 2006, plus carrying costs, as eligible for
recovery. After netting expected insurance proceeds, the amount is
$353 million. In April 2007, the PUCT issued its financing order
authorizing the issuance of securitization bonds to recover the $353 million of
hurricane reconstruction costs and up to $6 million of transaction costs, offset
by $32 million of related deferred income tax benefits. See Note 5 to
the financial statements for a discussion of the June 2007 issuance of the
securitization bonds.

 Entergy
received a total of $317 million as of December 31, 2009 on its Hurricane
Katrina and Hurricane Rita insurance claims, including the settlements of its
Hurricane Katrina claims with each of its two excess insurers. Of the
$317 million received, $34 million has been allocated to Entergy
Texas. Entergy has substantially completed its insurance recoveries
related to Hurricane Rita.

Electric Industry
Restructuring

In June 2009, a law was enacted in
Texas that requires Entergy Texas to cease all activities relating to Entergy
Texas' transition to competition. The law allows Entergy Texas to
remain a part of the SERC Region, although it does not prevent Entergy Texas
from joining the Southwest Power Pool. The law provides that
proceedings to certify a power region that Entergy Texas belongs to as a
qualified power region can be initiated by the PUCT, or on motion by another
party, when the conditions supporting such a proceeding exist. Under
the new law, the PUCT may not approve a transition to competition plan for
Entergy Texas until the expiration of four years from the PUCT's certification
of Entergy Texas' power region. In response to the new law, Entergy
Texas in June 2009 gave notice to the PUCT of the withdrawal of its previously
filed transition to competition plan, and requested that its transition to
competition proceeding be dismissed. In July 2009 the ALJ dismissed
the proceeding.

The new law also contains provisions
that allow Entergy Texas to be included in a cost recovery mechanism that
permits annual filings for the recovery of reasonable and necessary expenditures
for transmission infrastructure improvement and changes in wholesale
transmission charges. This mechanism was previously available to
other non-ERCOT Texas utility companies, but not to Entergy Texas.

The new law further amends already
existing law that had required Entergy Texas to propose for PUCT approval a
tariff to allow eligible customers the ability to contract for competitive
generation. The amending language in the new law provides, among
other things, that: 1) the tariff shall not be implemented in a
manner that harms the sustainability or competitiveness of manufacturers who
choose not to participate in the tariff; 2) Entergy Texas shall "purchase
competitive generation service, selected by the customer, and provide the
generation at retail to the customer"; and 3) Entergy Texas shall
provide and price transmission service and ancillary services under that tariff
at a rate that is unbundled from its cost of service. The
new law directs that the PUCT may not issue an order on the tariff that is
contrary to an applicable decision, rule, or policy statement of a federal
regulatory agency having jurisdiction. The new law provides that the
PUCT shall approve, reject, or modify the proposed tariff not later than
September 1, 2010.

 

 

369

 

Entergy
Texas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

State and Local Rate
Regulation

The rates that Entergy Texas charges
for its services significantly influence its financial position, results of
operations, and liquidity. Entergy Texas is regulated and the rates
charged to its customers are determined in regulatory
proceedings. The PUCT, a governmental agency, is primarily
responsible for approval of the rates charged to customers.

Filings
with the PUCT

2009 Rate
Case

In December 2009, Entergy Texas filed a
rate case requesting a $198.7 million increase reflecting an 11.5% return on
common equity based on an adjusted June 2009 test year. The filing
includes a proposed cost of service adjustment rider with a three-year term
beginning with the 2010 calendar year as the initial evaluation
period. Key provisions include a plus or minus 15 basis point
bandwidth, with earnings outside the bandwidth reset to the bottom or top of the
band and rates changing prospectively depending upon whether Entergy Texas is
under or over-earning. The annual change in revenue requirement is
limited to a percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for urban areas, and
the filing includes a provision for extraordinary events greater than $10
million per year that would be considered separately. The filing also
proposes a purchased power recovery rider and a competitive generation service
tariff, and will establish test year baseline values to be used in the
transmission cost recovery factor rider authorized for use by Entergy Texas in
the 2009 legislative session. The rate case also includes a $2.8
million revenue requirement to provide supplemental funding for the
decommissioning trust maintained for the 70% share of River Bend for which
Entergy Texas retail customers are responsible, in response to an NRC
notification of a projected shortfall of decommissioning funding
assurance. The filing also includes a request to reconcile $1.8
billion of fuel and purchased power costs covering the period April 2007 through
June 2009. Hearings in the proceeding are scheduled for July 2010,
and the PUCT is required to issue a final order by November 1,
2010. Beginning in May 2010, Entergy Texas will be allowed to
implement a $17.5 million interim rate increase, subject to
refund. The rates set by a final order will be effective back to
September 13, 2010.

2007 Rate
Case

Entergy Texas made a rate filing in
September 2007 with the PUCT requesting an annual rate increase totaling $107.5
million, including a base rate increase of $64.3 million and riders totaling
$43.2 million. On December 16, 2008, Entergy Texas filed a term sheet
that reflected a settlement agreement that included the PUCT Staff and the other
active participants in the rate case. On December 19, 2008, the ALJs
approved Entergy Texas' request to implement interim rates reflecting the
agreement. The agreement includes a $46.7 million base rate increase,
among other provisions. Under the ALJs' interim order, Entergy Texas
implemented interim rates, subject to refund and surcharge, reflecting the rates
established through the settlement. These rates became effective with
bills rendered on and after January 28, 2009, for usage on and after December
19, 2008. In addition, the existing recovery mechanism for
incremental purchased power capacity costs ceased as of January 28, 2009, with
purchased power capacity costs then subsumed within the base rates set in this
proceeding. The agreement adopted by the PUCT also reconciles fuel
and purchased power costs for the period January 1, 2006 through March 31,
2007. Certain Texas municipalities exercised their original
jurisdiction and took final action to approve rates consistent with the interim
rates approved by the ALJs. In March 2009, the PUCT approved the
settlement, which made the interim rates final.

Fuel and Purchased Power
Cost Recovery

Entergy Texas' rate schedules include a
fixed fuel factor to recover fuel and purchased power costs, including carrying
charges, not recovered in base rates. The fixed fuel factor formula
was revised and approved by a PUCT order in August 2006. The new
formula was implemented in September 2006. Under the new methodology,
semi-annual revisions of the fixed fuel factor will continue to be made in March
and September based on the market price of natural gas and changes in fuel
mix. The amounts collected under Entergy Texas' fixed fuel factor and
any interim surcharge or refund are subject to fuel reconciliation proceedings
before the PUCT.

In July 2005, Entergy Texas filed with
the PUCT a request for implementation of an incremental purchased capacity
recovery rider. Through this rider Entergy Texas sought to recover
incremental revenues that represent the incremental purchased capacity costs,
including Entergy Texas' obligation to purchase power from Entergy Louisiana's
Perryville plant, over what is already in Entergy Texas' base
rates. The PUCT approved an initial rider to collect $18 million
annually, which was increased to $21 million in subsequent
years. Under the

 

 

370

 

Entergy
Texas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

settlement
of the 2007 rate case discussed above, this rider ceased on January 28, 2009,
with the implementation of stipulated base rates. The amounts
collected through the rider are subject to reconciliation.

In May 2006, Entergy Texas filed with
the PUCT a fuel and purchased power reconciliation case covering the period
September 2003 through December 2005 for costs recoverable through the fixed
fuel factor rate and the incremental purchased capacity recovery
rider. Entergy Texas sought reconciliation of $1.6 billion of fuel
and purchased power costs on a Texas retail basis. A hearing was
conducted before the ALJs in April 2007. In July 2007, the ALJs
issued a proposal for decision recommending that Entergy Texas be authorized to
reconcile all of its requested fixed fuel factor expenses and recommending a
minor exception to the incremental purchased capacity recovery
calculation. The ALJs also recommended granting an exception to the
PUCT rules to allow for recovery of an additional $11.4 million in purchased
power capacity costs. In September 2007, the PUCT issued an order,
which affirmed the ultimate result of the ALJs' proposal for
decision. Upon motions for rehearing, the PUCT added additional
language in its order on rehearing to further clarify its position that 30% of
River Bend should not be regulated by the PUCT. Two parties filed a
second motion for rehearing, but the PUCT declined to address
them. The PUCT's decision has been appealed to the Travis County
District Court.

In March 2007, Entergy Texas filed a
request with the PUCT to refund $78.5 million, including interest, of fuel cost
recovery over-collections through January 2007. In June 2007 the PUCT
approved a unanimous stipulation and settlement agreement that updated the
over-collection balance through April 2007 and established a refund amount,
including interest, of $109.4 million. The refund was made over a
two-month period beginning with the first billing cycle in July
2007.

In October 2007, Entergy Texas filed a
request with the PUCT to refund $45.6 million, including interest, of fuel cost
recovery over-collections through September 2007. In January 2008,
Entergy Texas filed with the PUCT a stipulation and settlement agreement among
the parties that updated the over-collection balance through November 2007 and
established a refund amount, including interest, of $71 million. The
PUCT approved the agreement in February 2008. The refund was made
over a two-month period beginning February 2008, but was reduced by
$10.3 million of under-recovered incremental purchased capacity
costs.

In January 2008, Entergy Texas made a
compliance filing with the PUCT describing how its 2007 Rough Production Cost
Equalization receipts under the System Agreement were allocated between Entergy
Gulf States, Inc.'s Texas and Louisiana jurisdictions. A hearing was
held at the end of July 2008, and in October 2008 the ALJ issued a proposal for
decision recommending an additional $18.6 million allocation to Texas retail
customers. The PUCT adopted the ALJ's proposal for decision in
December 2008. Because the PUCT allocation to Texas retail customers
is inconsistent with the LPSC allocation to Louisiana retail customers, the
PUCT's decision would result in trapped costs between the Texas and Louisiana
jurisdictions with no mechanism for recovery. The PUCT denied Entergy
Texas' motion for rehearing and Entergy Texas commenced proceedings in both
state and federal district courts seeking to reverse the PUCT's
decision. The federal proceeding has been abated pending further
action by the FERC in the proceeding discussed below. No procedural
schedule has been set for the state proceeding.

Entergy Texas also filed with the FERC
a proposed amendment to the System Agreement bandwidth formula to specifically
calculate the payments to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas of
Entergy Gulf States, Inc.'s rough production cost equalization receipts for
2007. On May 8, 2009, the FERC issued an order rejecting the proposed
amendment, stating, among other things, that the FERC does not have jurisdiction
over the allocation of an individual utility's receipts/payments among or
between its retail jurisdictions and that this was a matter for the courts to
review in the pending proceedings noted above. Because of the FERC's
order, Entergy Texas recorded the effects of the PUCT's allocation of the
additional $18.6 million to retail customers in the second quarter
2009. On an after-tax basis, the charge to earnings was approximately
$13.0 million (including interest). Entergy requested rehearing of
the FERC's order, and on July 8, 2009, the FERC granted the request for
rehearing for the limited purpose of affording more time for consideration of
Entergy's request.

 

 

371

 

Entergy
Texas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

In May
2009, Entergy Texas filed with the PUCT a request to refund $46.1 million,
including interest, of fuel cost recovery over-collections through February
2009. Entergy Texas requested that the proposed refund be made over a
four-month period beginning June 2009. Pursuant to a stipulation
among the various parties, in June 2009 the PUCT issued an order approving a
refund of $59.2 million, including interest, of fuel cost recovery
overcollections through March 2009. The refund was made over a
three-month period beginning July 2009, with the exception of certain industrial
and seasonal/agricultural customers who received a one-month
refund.

In October 2009, Entergy Texas filed
with the PUCT a request to refund approximately $71 million, including interest,
of fuel cost recovery over-collections through September
2009. Entergy Texas requested that the proposed refund be made over a
six-month period beginning January 2010. Pursuant to a stipulation
among the various parties, the PUCT issued an order approving a refund of $87.8
million, including interest, of fuel cost recovery overcollections through
October 2009. The refund will be made over a three-month period
beginning January 2010, with the exception of certain industrial and
seasonal/agricultural customers who received a one-month refund.

Federal
Regulation

System Agreement
Proceedings

See
"
System Agreement
Proceedings
" in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries' Management's
Discussion and Analysis for discussion of the proceeding at the FERC involving
the System Agreement and of other related proceedings.

Transmission

See "
Independent Coordinator of
Transmission
" in Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries' Management's
Discussion and Analysis for further discussion.

Industrial and
Commercial

Entergy Texas' large industrial and
commercial customers continually explore ways to reduce their energy
costs. In particular, cogeneration is an option available to a
portion of Entergy Texas' industrial customer base. Entergy Texas
responds by working with industrial and commercial customers and negotiating
electric service contracts to provide, under existing rate schedules,
competitive rates that match specific customer needs and load
profiles. Entergy Texas actively participates in economic
development, customer retention, and reclamation activities to increase
industrial and commercial demand, from both new and existing
customers. Entergy Texas does not currently expect additional
significant losses to cogeneration because of the current economics of the
electricity markets and Entergy Texas' marketing efforts in retaining industrial
customers.

Environmental
Risks

Entergy Texas' facilities and
operations are subject to regulation by various governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and
hazardous and solid wastes, and other environmental
matters. Management believes that Entergy Texas is in substantial
compliance with environmental regulations currently applicable to its facilities
and operations. Because environmental regulations are subject to
change, future compliance costs cannot be precisely estimated.

 

 

372

 

Entergy
Texas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Critical Accounting
Estimates

The
preparation of Entergy Texas' financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to apply appropriate
accounting policies and to make estimates and judgments that can have a
significant effect on reported financial position, results of operations, and
cash flows. Management has identified the following accounting
policies and estimates as critical because they are based on assumptions and
measurements that involve a high degree of uncertainty, and the potential for
future changes in the assumptions and measurements that could produce estimates
that would have a material effect on the presentation of Entergy Texas'
financial position or results of operations.

Unbilled
Revenue

As
discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, Entergy Texas records an
estimate of the revenues earned for energy delivered since the latest customer
billing. Each month the estimated unbilled revenue amounts are
recorded as revenue and a receivable, and the prior month's estimate is
reversed. The difference between the estimate of the unbilled
receivable at the beginning of the period and the end of the period is the
amount of unbilled revenue recognized during the period. The estimate
recorded is primarily based upon an estimate of customer usage during the
unbilled period and the billed price to customers in that
month. Therefore, revenue recognized may be affected by the estimated
price and usage at the beginning and end of each period and fuel price
fluctuations, in addition to changes in certain components of the
calculation.

Qualified
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

Entergy
sponsors qualified defined benefit pension plans which cover substantially all
employees. Additionally, Entergy currently provides postretirement
health care and life insurance benefits for substantially all employees who
reach retirement age while still working for Entergy. Entergy's
reported costs of providing these benefits, as described in Note 11 to the
financial statements, are impacted by numerous factors including the provisions
of the plans, changing employee demographics, and various actuarial
calculations, assumptions, and accounting mechanisms. See the "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
" section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries'
Management's Discussion and Analysis for further discussion. Because
of the complexity of these calculations, the long-term nature of these
obligations, and the importance of the assumptions utilized, Entergy's estimate
of these costs is a critical accounting estimate.

Cost
Sensitivity

The
following chart reflects the sensitivity of qualified pension cost to changes in
certain actuarial assumptions (dollars in thousands):

 

 

Actuarial
 Assumption

 
 

 

Change
 in

Assumption

 
 

 

Impact
 on 2009

Qualified
 Pension Cost

 
 

Impact
 on Qualified

 Projected

Benefit
 Obligation

 
 

 
 

Increase/(Decrease)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Discount
 rate

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$608

 
 

$6,517

Rate
 of return on plan assets

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$610

 
 

-

Rate
 of increase in compensation

 
 

0.25%

 
 

$296

 
 

$1,312

 

373

 

Entergy
Texas, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

The
following chart reflects the sensitivity of postretirement benefit cost to
changes in certain actuarial assumptions (dollars in thousands):

 

 

Actuarial
 Assumption

 
 

 

Change
 in

Assumption

 
 

 

Impact
 on 2009

Postretirement
 Benefit Cost

 
 

Impact
 on Accumulated

Postretirement
 Benefit

Obligation

 
 

 
 

Increase/(Decrease)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Health
 care cost trend

 
 

0.25%

 
 

$432

 
 

$2,583

Discount
 rate

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$258

 
 

$3,017

Each
fluctuation above assumes that the other components of the calculation are held
constant.

Costs and
Funding

Total
qualified pension income for Entergy Texas in 2009 was $0.8
million. Entergy Texas anticipates 2010 qualified pension expense to
be $3 million. Entergy Texas contributed $3.6 million to its
qualified pension plans in 2009. Entergy Texas' contributions to the
pension trust are currently estimated to be approximately $9.7 million in 2010
although the required pension contributions will not be known with more
certainty until the January 1, 2010 valuations are completed by April 1,
2010. Also, guidance pursuant to the Pension Protection Act of 2006
rules, effective for the 2008 plan year and beyond, continues to evolve, be
interpreted through technical corrections bills, and discussed within the
industry and by congressional lawmakers. Any changes to the Pension
Protection Act as a result of these discussions and efforts may affect the level
of Entergy Texas’ pension contributions in the future.

Total
postretirement health care and life insurance benefit costs for Entergy Texas in
2009 were $5.7 million, including $1 million in savings due to the estimated
effect of future Medicare Part D subsidies. Entergy Texas expects
2010 postretirement health care and life insurance benefit costs to approximate
$5.6 million, including $1.1 million in savings due to the estimated effect of
future Medicare Part D subsidies. Entergy Texas expects to contribute
approximately $7.7 million to its other postretirement plans in
2010.

New Accounting
Pronouncements

See "
New
Accounting Pronouncements
" section of Entergy Corporation and
Subsidiaries' Management's Discussion and Analysis for a discussion of new
accounting pronouncements.

 

374

 

 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholder of

Entergy
Texas, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Beaumont,
Texas

We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Entergy Texas, Inc. and
Subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related
consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and paid-in capital, and
cash flows (pages 376 through 380 and applicable items in pages 63 through 193)
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our
opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Entergy Texas, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.

As
discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, effective December 31, 2007,
Entergy Gulf States, Inc. completed a jurisdictional separation and contributed
certain assets and liabilities to the Company.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control – Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 24, 2010 expressed an
unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

375

 

 

ENTERGY
 TEXAS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

 

CONSOLIDATED
 INCOME STATEMENTS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 REVENUES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electric

 

$

1,563,823

 

 

$

2,012,258

 

 

$

1,782,923

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 EXPENSES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Operation
 and Maintenance:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Fuel,
 fuel-related expenses, and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 gas
 purchased for resale

 

 

449,335

 

 

 

581,696

 

 

 

546,413

 

 Purchased
 power

 

 

584,550

 

 

 

965,426

 

 

 

777,419

 

 Other
 operation and maintenance

 

 

204,524

 

 

 

176,096

 

 

 

179,119

 

Decommissioning

 

 

195

 

 

 

184

 

 

 

173

 

Taxes
 other than income taxes

 

 

55,480

 

 

 

53,615

 

 

 

50,617

 

Depreciation
 and amortization

 

 

73,840

 

 

 

75,125

 

 

 

68,172

 

Other
 regulatory charges - net

 

 

44,807

 

 

 

24,197

 

 

 

16,808

 

TOTAL

 

 

1,412,731

 

 

 

1,876,339

 

 

 

1,638,721

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 INCOME

 

 

151,092

 

 

 

135,919

 

 

 

144,202

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
 INCOME

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Allowance
 for equity funds used during construction

 

 

5,232

 

 

 

3,928

 

 

 

3,295

 

Interest
 and dividend income

 

 

47,541

 

 

 

11,736

 

 

 

31,397

 

Miscellaneous
 - net

 

 

544

 

 

 

12,387

 

 

 

(600

)

TOTAL

 

 

53,317

 

 

 

28,051

 

 

 

34,092

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INTEREST
 AND OTHER CHARGES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Interest
 on long-term debt

 

 

98,957

 

 

 

72,441

 

 

 

74,343

 

Other
 interest - net

 

 

7,206

 

 

 

7,756

 

 

 

10,907

 

Allowance
 for borrowed funds used during construction

 

 

(2,510

)

 

 

(2,240

)

 

 

(2,126

)

TOTAL

 

 

103,653

 

 

 

77,957

 

 

 

83,124

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INCOME
 BEFORE INCOME TAXES

 

 

100,756

 

 

 

86,013

 

 

 

95,170

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Income
 taxes

 

 

36,915

 

 

 

28,118

 

 

 

36,249

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NET
 INCOME

 

$

63,841

 

 

$

57,895

 

 

$

58,921

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

376

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 TEXAS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

 

CONSOLIDATED
 STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net
 income

 

$

63,841

 

 

$

57,895

 

 

$

58,921

 

Adjustments
 to reconcile net income to net cash flow provided by operating
 activities:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Reserve
 for regulatory adjustments

 

 

-

 

 

 

(7,562

)

 

 

(363

)

 Other
 regulatory charges - net

 

 

44,807

 

 

 

24,197

 

 

 

16,808

 

 Depreciation,
 amortization, and decommissioning

 

 

74,035

 

 

 

75,309

 

 

 

68,345

 

 Deferred
 income taxes, investment tax credits, and non-current taxes
 accrued

 

 

4,365

 

 

 

(255

)

 

 

218,873

 

 Changes
 in working capital:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Receivables

 

 

281,710

 

 

 

(35,081

)

 

 

(230,481

)

 Fuel
 inventory

 

 

2,688

 

 

 

(1,867

)

 

 

(10,939

)

 Accounts
 payable

 

 

(99,483

)

 

 

104,912

 

 

 

(1,328

)

 Taxes
 accrued

 

 

27,986

 

 

 

33,842

 

 

 

4,936

 

 Interest
 accrued

 

 

8,473

 

 

 

(5,947

)

 

 

10,030

 

 Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

123,927

 

 

 

(88,449

)

 

 

21,619

 

 Other
 working capital accounts

 

 

(95,603

)

 

 

121,081

 

 

 

86,598

 

 Provision
 for estimated losses and reserves

 

 

(4,226

)

 

 

4,073

 

 

 

(568

)

 Changes
 in other regulatory assets

 

 

(187,250

)

 

 

(268,473

)

 

 

(21,038

)

 Changes
 in pension and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

(12,594

)

 

 

76,898

 

 

 

(6,901

)

 Other

 

 

54,857

 

 

 

(89,129

)

 

 

(38,521

)

Net
 cash flow provided by operating activities

 

 

287,533

 

 

 

1,444

 

 

 

175,991

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INVESTING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Construction
 expenditures

 

 

(188,277

)

 

 

(283,622

)

 

 

(167,083

)

Allowance
 for equity funds used during construction

 

 

5,232

 

 

 

3,928

 

 

 

3,295

 

Insurance
 proceeds

 

 

36,749

 

 

 

1,420

 

 

 

5,244

 

Change
 in money pool receivable - net

 

 

(69,317

)

 

 

154,176

 

 

 

(56,899

)

Collections
 received from (remitted to) transition charge account

 

 

(1,036

)

 

 

7,211

 

 

 

(19,273

)

Net
 cash flow used in investing activities

 

 

(216,649

)

 

 

(116,887

)

 

 

(234,716

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FINANCING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Proceeds
 from the issuance of long-term debt

 

 

1,177,819

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

323,637

 

Return
 of capital to parent

 

 

-

 

 

 

(150,000

)

 

 

-

 

Retirement
 of long-term debt

 

 

(619,945

)

 

 

(327,514

)

 

 

(2,541

)

Change
 in money pool payable - net

 

 

(50,794

)

 

 

50,794

 

 

 

-

 

Loan
 from Entergy Corporation

 

 

-

 

 

 

160,000

 

 

 

-

 

Repayment
 of loan from Entergy Corporation

 

 

(160,000

)

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

Changes
 in credit borrowings - net

 

 

(100,000

)

 

 

100,000

 

 

 

-

 

Dividends
 paid:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Common
 stock

 

 

(119,500

)

 

 

(12,000

)

 

 

(42,404

)

Other

 

 

-

 

 

 

(680

)

 

 

-

 

Net
 cash flow provided by (used in) financing activities

 

 

127,580

 

 

 

(179,400

)

 

 

278,692

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net
 increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 

 

198,464

 

 

 

(294,843

)

 

 

219,967

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 

 

2,239

 

 

 

297,082

 

 

 

77,115

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at end of period

 

$

200,703

 

 

$

2,239

 

 

$

297,082

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUPPLEMENTAL
 DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 paid/(received) during the period for:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Interest
 - net of amount capitalized

 

$

93,951

 

 

$

82,635

 

 

$

70,561

 

 Income
 taxes

 

$

(72,322

)

 

$

762

 

 

$

(1,930

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

377

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 TEXAS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

 

CONSOLIDATED
 BALANCE SHEETS

 

ASSETS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

December
 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT
 ASSETS

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Cash

 

$

1,552

 

 

$

2,201

 

 Temporary
 cash investments

 

 

199,151

 

 

 

38

 

 Total
 cash and cash equivalents

 

 

200,703

 

 

 

2,239

 

Securitization
 recovery trust account

 

 

13,098

 

 

 

12,062

 

Accounts
 receivable:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Customer

 

 

51,194

 

 

 

82,583

 

 Allowance
 for doubtful accounts

 

 

(844

)

 

 

(1,001

)

 Associated
 companies

 

 

75,437

 

 

 

258,629

 

 Other

 

 

10,688

 

 

 

14,122

 

 Accrued
 unbilled revenues

 

 

35,727

 

 

 

30,262

 

 Total
 accounts receivable

 

 

172,202

 

 

 

384,595

 

Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

-

 

 

 

21,179

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes

 

 

59,399

 

 

 

88,611

 

Fuel
 inventory - at average cost

 

 

54,957

 

 

 

57,645

 

Materials
 and supplies - at average cost

 

 

30,432

 

 

 

36,329

 

Prepayments
 and other

 

 

16,357

 

 

 

12,785

 

TOTAL

 

 

547,148

 

 

 

615,445

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
 PROPERTY AND INVESTMENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Investments
 in affiliates - at equity

 

 

845

 

 

 

845

 

Non-utility
 property - at cost (less accumulated depreciation)

 

 

1,496

 

 

 

1,788

 

Other

 

 

16,309

 

 

 

17,451

 

TOTAL

 

 

18,650

 

 

 

20,084

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UTILITY
 PLANT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electric

 

 

3,074,334

 

 

 

2,912,972

 

Construction
 work in progress

 

 

82,167

 

 

 

221,387

 

TOTAL
 UTILITY PLANT

 

 

3,156,501

 

 

 

3,134,359

 

Less
 - accumulated depreciation and amortization

 

 

1,210,172

 

 

 

1,104,116

 

UTILITY
 PLANT - NET

 

 

1,946,329

 

 

 

2,030,243

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DEFERRED
 DEBITS AND OTHER ASSETS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulatory
 assets:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Regulatory
 asset for income taxes - net

 

 

95,894

 

 

 

84,997

 

 Other
 regulatory assets

 

 

1,232,101

 

 

 

1,117,257

 

Long-term
 receivables - associated companies

 

 

34,340

 

 

 

88,031

 

Other

 

 

21,176

 

 

 

28,714

 

TOTAL

 

 

1,383,511

 

 

 

1,318,999

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
 ASSETS

 

$

3,895,638

 

 

$

3,984,771

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

378

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 TEXAS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED
 BALANCE SHEETS

LIABILITIES
 AND SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

December
 31,

 
 

 

2009

 

 

 

2008

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT
 LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Currently
 maturing portion of debt assumption liability

 

$

167,742

 

 

$

100,509

 

Accounts
 payable:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

47,677

 

 

 

144,662

 

 Other

 

 

70,147

 

 

 

342,449

 

Customer
 deposits

 

 

39,665

 

 

 

40,589

 

Taxes
 accrued

 

 

77,581

 

 

 

49,595

 

Interest
 accrued

 

 

30,575

 

 

 

22,102

 

Deferred
 fuel costs

 

 

102,748

 

 

 

-

 

Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

935

 

 

 

1,269

 

System
 agreement cost equalization

 

 

117,204

 

 

 

214,315

 

Other

 

 

2,674

 

 

 

4,551

 

TOTAL

 

 

656,948

 

 

 

920,041

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NON-CURRENT
 LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes and taxes accrued

 

 

740,074

 

 

 

756,996

 

Accumulated
 deferred investment tax credits

 

 

22,532

 

 

 

24,128

 

Other
 regulatory liabilities

 

 

20,417

 

 

 

-

 

Asset
 retirement cost liabilities

 

 

3,445

 

 

 

3,250

 

Accumulated
 provisions

 

 

8,710

 

 

 

12,936

 

Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

78,722

 

 

 

91,316

 

Note
 payable to Entergy Corporation

 

 

-

 

 

 

160,000

 

Long-term
 debt - assumption liability

 

 

-

 

 

 

669,462

 

Other
 long-term debt

 

 

1,490,283

 

 

 

414,906

 

Other

 

 

30,017

 

 

 

31,587

 

TOTAL

 

 

2,394,200

 

 

 

2,164,581

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Commitments
 and Contingencies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SHAREHOLDER'S
 EQUITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Common
 stock, no par value, authorized 200,000,000 shares;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 issued
 and outstanding 46,525,000 shares in 2009 and 2008

 

 

49,452

 

 

 

49,452

 

Paid-in
 capital

 

 

481,994

 

 

 

481,994

 

Retained
 earnings

 

 

313,044

 

 

 

368,703

 

TOTAL

 

 

844,490

 

 

 

900,149

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY

 

$

3,895,638

 

 

$

3,984,771

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

379

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 TEXAS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

 

CONSOLIDATED
 STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS AND PAID-IN CAPITAL

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

RETAINED
 EARNINGS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Retained
 Earnings - Beginning of period

 

$

368,703

 

 

$

322,808

 

 

$

306,266

 

 Add:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Net
 Income

 

 

63,841

 

 

 

57,895

 

 

 

58,921

 

 Total

 

 

63,841

 

 

 

57,895

 

 

 

58,921

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deduct:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Dividends
 declared on common stock

 

 

119,500

 

 

 

12,000

 

 

 

42,404

 

 Other
 deductions

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

(25

)

 Total

 

 

119,500

 

 

 

12,000

 

 

 

42,379

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Retained
 Earnings - End of period

 

$

313,044

 

 

$

368,703

 

 

$

322,808

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAID-IN
 CAPITAL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Paid-in
 Capital - Beginning of period

 

$

481,994

 

 

$

631,994

 

 

$

632,222

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Add
 (Deduct):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Return
 of capital to parent

 

 

-

 

 

 

(150,000

)

 

 

-

 

 Other

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

(228

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Paid-in
 Capital - End of period

 

$

481,994

 

 

$

481,994

 

 

$

631,994

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

380

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 TEXAS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

 

SELECTED
 FINANCIAL DATA - FIVE-YEAR COMPARISON

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 

2006

 

 

2005

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Operating
 revenues

 

$

1,563,823

 

 

$

2,012,258

 

 

$

1,782,923

 

 

$

1,880,228

 

 

$

1,734,221

 

Net
 Income

 

$

63,841

 

 

$

57,895

 

 

$

58,921

 

 

$

54,137

 

 

$

48,916

 

Total
 assets

 

$

3,895,638

 

 

$

3,984,771

 

 

$

3,606,752

 

 

$

3,019,873

 

 

$

3,041,100

 

Long-term
 obligations (1)

 

$

1,490,283

 

 

$

1,084,368

 

 

$

1,103,863

 

 

$

1,085,680

 

 

$

1,085,593

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1) Includes
 long-term debt (excluding currently maturing debt)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

2009

 

 

 

2008

 

 

 

2007

 

 

 

2006

 

 

 

2005

 

 
 

 

(Dollars
 In Millions)

 

Electric
 Operating Revenues:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Residential

 

$

533

 

 

$

606

 

 

$

544

 

 

$

600

 

 

$

502

 

 Commercial

 

 

337

 

 

 

417

 

 

 

364

 

 

 

406

 

 

 

327

 

 Industrial

 

 

332

 

 

 

489

 

 

 

414

 

 

 

464

 

 

 

388

 

 Governmental

 

 

23

 

 

 

27

 

 

 

24

 

 

 

27

 

 

 

22

 

 Total
 retail

 

 

1,225

 

 

 

1,539

 

 

 

1,346

 

 

 

1,497

 

 

 

1,239

 

 Sales
 for resale:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

294

 

 

 

436

 

 

 

398

 

 

 

354

 

 

 

468

 

 Non-associated
 companies

 

 

10

 

 

 

6

 

 

 

6

 

 

 

6

 

 

 

6

 

 Other

 

 

35

 

 

 

31

 

 

 

33

 

 

 

23

 

 

 

21

 

 Total

 

$

1,564

 

 

$

2,012

 

 

$

1,783

 

 

$

1,880

 

 

$

1,734

 

Billed
 Electric Energy Sales (GWh):

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Residential

 

 

5,453

 

 

 

5,245

 

 

 

5,280

 

 

 

5,211

 

 

 

5,207

 

 Commercial

 

 

4,165

 

 

 

4,092

 

 

 

4,085

 

 

 

4,002

 

 

 

3,878

 

 Industrial

 

 

5,570

 

 

 

5,948

 

 

 

5,911

 

 

 

5,915

 

 

 

5,650

 

 Governmental

 

 

258

 

 

 

248

 

 

 

246

 

 

 

255

 

 

 

244

 

 Total
 retail

 

 

15,446

 

 

 

15,533

 

 

 

15,522

 

 

 

15,383

 

 

 

14,979

 

 Sales
 for resale:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

3,630

 

 

 

3,771

 

 

 

4,366

 

 

 

4,316

 

 

 

4,994

 

 Non-associated
 companies

 

 

231

 

 

 

87

 

 

 

89

 

 

 

87

 

 

 

89

 

 Total

 

 

19,307

 

 

 

19,391

 

 

 

19,977

 

 

 

19,786

 

 

 

20,062

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

381

 

 

 

SYSTEM
ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.

MANAGEMENT'S
FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

System
Energy's principal asset currently consists of a 90% ownership and leasehold
interest in Grand Gulf. The capacity and energy from its 90% interest
is sold under the Unit Power Sales Agreement to its only four customers, Entergy
Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New
Orleans. System Energy's operating revenues are derived from the
allocation of the capacity, energy, and related costs associated with its 90%
interest in Grand Gulf pursuant to the Unit Power Sales
Agreement. Payments under the Unit Power Sales Agreement are System
Energy's only source of operating revenues.

Results of
Operations

Net
Income

2009 Compared to
2008

Net income decreased $42.2 million
primarily due to an increase in the effective income tax rate.

An increase in allowance for equity
funds used during construction, primarily due to the new nuclear development
project discussed below, was offset by a decrease in interest income, primarily
on money pool investments.

2008 Compared to
2007

Net income decreased $45.0 million
primarily due to an increase in the effective tax rate, a decrease in rate base
in 2008 that resulted in lower operating income, and lower interest
income. The lower interest income resulted from a decrease in
interest earned on money pool investments and from $2.5 million in interest
income recorded on an IRS audit settlement in 2007.

Income
Taxes

The effective income tax rates for
2009, 2008, and 2007 were 66.5%, 39.5%, and 25.0%, respectively. The
increase in the rate for 2009 is primarily due to the reallocation of Entergy
Corporation consolidated tax benefits based on the resolution of IRS audits of
prior tax years. See Note 3 to the financial statements for a
reconciliation of the federal statutory rate of 35.0% to the effective income
tax rate and for a discussion of the IRS audits.

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Cash
Flow

Cash flows for the years ended December
31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 were as follows:

 
 

 
 

 
 

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

2007

 
 

 
 

 
 

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 
 

$102,788 

 
 

$105,005 

 
 

$135,012 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 flow provided by (used in):

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Operating
 activities

 
 

417,877 

 
 

218,538 

 
 

221,901 

 
 

Investing
 activities

 
 

(149,344)

 
 

(96,954)

 
 

(96,955)

 
 

Financing
 activities

 
 

(106,839)

 
 

(123,801)

 
 

(154,953)

 
 

 Net
 increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 
 

161,694 

 
 

(2,217)

 
 

(30,007)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at end of period

 
 

$264,482 

 
 

$102,788 

 
 

$105,005 

 

382

 

System
Energy Resources, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Operating
Activities

Cash flow from operations increased by
$199.4 million in 2009 primarily due to income tax refunds of $120.4 million in
2009 compared to income tax payments of $54.4 million in 2008.

Cash flow from operations decreased by
$3.4 million in 2008 primarily due to lower net income substantially offset by a
decrease of $30.7 million in income tax payments.

Investing
Activities

Net cash flow used in
 
investing activities
increased $52.4 million in cash flow in 2009 primarily due to money pool
activity. Increases in System Energy's receivable from the money pool
are a use of cash flow, and System Energy's receivable from the money pool
increased by $47.6 million in 2009 compared to decreasing by $10.7 million in
2008. The money pool is an intercompany borrowing arrangement
designed to reduce Entergy’s subsidiaries’ need for external short-term
borrowings.

Financing
Activities

Net cash flow used in financing
activities decreased $17.0 million in 2009 primarily due to a decrease of $21.8
million in common stock dividends paid.

Net cash flow used in financing
activities decreased $31.2 million in 2008 primarily due to a decrease of $34
million in common stock dividends paid.

See Note 5 to the financial statements
for details of long-term debt.

Capital
Structure

System
Energy's capitalization is balanced between equity and debt, as shown in the
following table.

 
 

 
 

December
 31,

 2009

 
 

December
 31,

2008

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Net
 debt to net capital

 
 

40.1%

 
 

48.2%

Effect
 of subtracting cash from debt

 
 

9.6%

 
 

3.0%

Debt
 to capital

 
 

49.7%

 
 

51.2%

Net debt
consists of debt less cash and cash equivalents. Debt consists of
capital lease obligations and long-term debt, including the currently maturing
portion. Capital consists of debt and common shareholder's
equity. Net capital consists of capital less cash and cash
equivalents. System Energy uses the net debt to net capital ratio in
analyzing its financial condition and believes it provides useful information to
its investors and creditors in evaluating System Energy's financial
condition.

Uses
of Capital

System Energy requires capital
resources for:

· 

construction
 and other capital investments;

· 

debt
 maturities;

· 

working
 capital purposes, including the financing of fuel costs;
 and

· 

dividend
 and interest payments.

 

 

383

 

System
Energy Resources, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Following
are the amounts of System Energy's planned construction and other capital
investments, existing debt and lease obligations (includes estimated interest
payments), and other purchase obligations:

 
 

2010

 
 

2011-2012

 
 

2013-2014

 
 

After
 2014

 
 

Total

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

Planned
 construction and

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 capital
 investment

$170

 
 

$367

 
 

N/A

 
 

N/A

 
 

$537

 
 

Long-term
 debt (1)

$77

 
 

$226

 
 

$151

 
 

$660

 
 

$1,114

 
 

Nuclear
 fuel lease obligations (2)

$50

 
 

$25

 
 

N/A

 
 

N/A

 
 

$75

 
 

Purchase
 obligations (3)

$18

 
 

$22

 
 

$24

 
 

$79

 
 

$143

 
 

(1)

Includes
 estimated interest payments. Long-term debt is discussed in
 Note 5 to the financial statements.

(2)

It
 is expected that additional financing under the lease will be arranged as
 needed to acquire additional fuel, to pay interest, and to pay maturing
 debt. If such additional financing cannot be arranged, however,
 System Energy must repurchase sufficient nuclear fuel to allow the lessor
 to meet its obligations.

(3)

Purchase
 obligations represent the minimum purchase obligation or cancellation
 charge for contractual obligations to purchase goods or
 services. For System Energy, it includes nuclear fuel purchase
 obligations.

In
addition to the contractual obligations given above, System Energy expects to
contribute approximately $12.5 million to its pension plans and approximately
$3.4 million to its other postretirement plans in 2010 although the required
pension contributions will not be known with more certainty until the January 1,
2010 valuations are completed by April 1, 2010. Also, guidance
pursuant to the Pension Protection Act of 2006 rules, effective for the 2008
plan year and beyond, continues to evolve, be interpreted through technical
corrections bills, and discussed within the industry and by congressional
lawmakers. Any changes to the Pension Protection Act as a result of
these discussions and efforts may affect the level of System Energy’s pension
contributions in the future.

Also in addition to the contractual
obligations, System Energy has $168.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits and
interest net of unused tax attributes and payments for which the timing of
payments beyond 12 months cannot be reasonably estimated due to uncertainties in
the timing of effective settlement of tax positions. See Note 3 to
the financial statements for additional information regarding unrecognized tax
benefits.

The planned capital investment estimate
for System Energy reflects capital required to support the existing business of
System Energy. The estimate also includes the costs of System
Energy's planned approximate 178 MW uprate of the Grand Gulf nuclear
plant. The project is currently expected to cost $575 million,
including transmission upgrades. On November 30, 2009, the MPSC
issued a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity for implementation of
the uprate.

System Energy has also invested,
through its subsidiary Entergy New Nuclear Development, LLC, in initial
development costs for potential new nuclear development at the Grand Gulf and
River Bend sites, including licensing and design activities. This
project is in the early stages, and several issues remain to be addressed over
time before significant additional capital would be committed to this
project. In addition, Entergy temporarily suspended reviews of the
two license applications for the sites and will explore alternative nuclear
technologies for this project. As of December 31, 2009, $100.3
million in construction work in progress was recorded on System Energy's balance
sheet related to this project. In the first quarter 2010 this
construction work in progress was transferred to Entergy Gulf States Louisiana,
Entergy Louisiana, and Entergy Mississippi.

Entergy's Utility supply plan
initiative will continue to seek to transform its generation portfolio with new
or repowered generation resources. Opportunities resulting from the
supply plan initiative, including new projects or the exploration of alternative
financing sources, could result in increases or decreases in the capital
expenditure estimates given above.

As a wholly-owned subsidiary, System
Energy dividends its earnings to Entergy Corporation at a percentage determined
monthly. Currently, all of System Energy's retained earnings are
available for distribution.

 

 

384

 

System
Energy Resources, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Sources
of Capital

System Energy's sources to meet its
capital requirements include:

· 

internally
 generated funds;

· 

cash
 on hand;

· 

debt
 issuances; and

· 

bank
 financing under new or existing
facilities.

System Energy may refinance or redeem
debt prior to maturity, to the extent market conditions and interest and
dividend rates are favorable.

All debt and common stock issuances by
System Energy require prior regulatory approval. Debt issuances are
also subject to issuance tests set forth in its bond indentures and other
agreements. System Energy has sufficient capacity under these tests
to meet its foreseeable capital needs.

System
Energy has obtained a short-term borrowing authorization from the FERC under
which it may borrow, through October 2011, up to the aggregate amount, at any
one time outstanding, of $200 million. See Note 4 to the financial
statements for further discussion of System Energy's short-term borrowing
limits. System Energy has also obtained an order from the FERC
authorizing long-term securities issuances. The current long-term
authorization extends through July 2011.

System Energy's receivables from the
money pool were as follows as of December 31 for each of the following
years
:

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

2007

 
 

2006

(In
 Thousands)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$90,507

 
 

$42,915

 
 

$53,620

 
 

$88,231

In May
2007, $22.5 million of System Energy's receivable from the money pool was
replaced by a note receivable from Entergy New Orleans. See Note 4 to
the financial statements for a description of the money pool.

Nuclear
Matters

System
Energy owns and operates Grand Gulf. System Energy is, therefore,
subject to the risks related to owning and operating a nuclear plant. These
include risks from the use, storage, handling and disposal of high-level and
low-level radioactive materials, regulatory requirement changes, including
changes resulting from events at other plants, limitations on the amounts and
types of insurance commercially available for losses in connection with nuclear
operations, and technological and financial uncertainties related to
decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives, including the
sufficiency of funds in decommissioning trusts. In the event of an
unanticipated early shutdown of Grand Gulf, System Energy may be required to
provide additional funds or credit support to satisfy regulatory requirements
for decommissioning.

Environmental
Risks

System Energy's facilities and
operations are subject to regulation by various governmental authorities having
jurisdiction over air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and
hazardous and solid wastes, and other environmental
matters. Management believes that System Energy is in substantial
compliance with environmental regulations currently applicable to its facilities
and operations. Because environmental regulations are subject to
change, future compliance costs cannot be precisely estimated.

 

 

385

 

System
Energy Resources, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Critical Accounting
Estimates

The
preparation of System Energy's financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to apply appropriate
accounting policies and to make estimates and judgments that can have a
significant effect on reported financial position, results of operations, and
cash flows. Management has identified the following accounting
policies and estimates as critical because they are based on assumptions and
measurements that involve a high degree of uncertainty, and there is the
potential for future changes in the assumptions and measurements that could
produce estimates that would have a material impact on the presentation of
System Energy's financial position or results of operations.

Nuclear
Decommissioning Costs

See
"
Nuclear Decommissioning
Costs
" in the "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
" section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
Management's Discussion and Analysis for discussion of the estimates inherent in
accounting for nuclear decommissioning costs.

Qualified
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits

Entergy
sponsors qualified defined benefit pension plans which cover substantially all
employees. Additionally, Entergy currently provides postretirement
health care and life insurance benefits for substantially all employees who
reach retirement age while still working for Entergy. Entergy's
reported costs of providing these benefits, as described in Note 11 to the
financial statements, are impacted by numerous factors including the provisions
of the plans, changing employee demographics, and various actuarial
calculations, assumptions, and accounting mechanisms. See the "
Critical
Accounting Estimates
" section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
Management's Discussion and Analysis for further discussion. Because
of the complexity of these calculations, the long-term nature of these
obligations, and the importance of the assumptions utilized, Entergy's estimate
of these costs is a critical accounting estimate.

Cost
Sensitivity

The
following chart reflects the sensitivity of qualified pension cost to changes in
certain actuarial assumptions (dollars in thousands):

 

 

Actuarial
 Assumption

 
 

 

Change
 in

Assumption

 
 

 

Impact
 on 2009

Qualified
 Pension Cost

 
 

Impact
 on Projected

Qualified
 Benefit

Obligation

 
 

 
 

Increase/(Decrease)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Discount
 rate

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$485

 
 

$4,806

Rate
 of return on plan assets

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$326

 
 

-

Rate
 of increase in compensation

 
 

0.25%

 
 

$237

 
 

$1,282

The
following chart reflects the sensitivity of postretirement benefit cost to
changes in certain actuarial assumptions (dollars in thousands):

 

 

Actuarial
 Assumption

 
 

 

Change
 in

Assumption

 
 

 

Impact
 on 2009

Postretirement
 Benefit Cost

 
 

Impact
 on Accumulated

Postretirement
 Benefit

Obligation

 
 

 
 

Increase/(Decrease)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Health
 care cost trend

 
 

0.25%

 
 

$244

 
 

$1,248

Discount
 rate

 
 

(0.25%)

 
 

$175

 
 

$1,384

Each
fluctuation above assumes that the other components of the calculation are held
constant.

 

 

386

 

System
Energy Resources, Inc.

Management's
Financial Discussion and Analysis

Costs and
Funding

Total
qualified pension cost for System Energy in 2009 was $1.5
million. System Energy anticipates 2010 qualified pension cost to be
$1.9 million. System Energy contributed $4.8 million to its qualified
pension plans in 2009 and expects to contribute approximately $12.5 million in
2010 although the required pension contributions will not be known with more
certainty until the January 1, 2010 valuations are completed by April 1,
2010. Also, guidance pursuant to the Pension Protection Act of 2006
rules, effective for the 2008 plan year and beyond, continues to evolve, be
interpreted through technical corrections bills, and discussed within the
industry and by congressional lawmakers. Any changes to the Pension
Protection Act as a result of these discussions and efforts may affect the level
of System Energy’s pension contributions in the future.

Total
postretirement health care and life insurance benefit costs for System Energy in
2009 were $3.1 million, including $0.9 million in savings due to the estimated
effect of future Medicare Part D subsidies. System Energy expects
2010 postretirement health care and life insurance benefit costs to approximate
$3.5 million, including $1.1 million in savings due to the estimated effect of
future Medicare Part D subsidies. System Energy anticipates contributions for
postretirement health care and life insurance benefits costs to be $3.4 million
in 2010.

New Accounting
Pronouncements

See "
New
Accounting Pronouncements
" section of Entergy Corporation and
Subsidiaries Management's Discussion and Analysis for discussion of new
accounting pronouncements.

 

387

 

 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholder of

System
Energy Resources, Inc.

Jackson,
Mississippi

We have
audited the accompanying balance sheets of System Energy Resources, Inc. (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related statements of
income, retained earnings, and cash flows (pages 389 through 394 and applicable
items in pages 63 through 193) for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2009. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our
opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of System Energy Resources, Inc. as of December 31, 2009 and
2008, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission and our report dated February 24, 2010 expressed an
unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

388

 

SYSTEM
 ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.

 

INCOME
 STATEMENTS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 REVENUES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electric

 

$

554,007

 

 

$

528,998

 

 

$

553,193

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 EXPENSES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Operation
 and Maintenance:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Fuel,
 fuel-related expenses, and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 gas
 purchased for resale

 

 

63,877

 

 

 

44,506

 

 

 

42,798

 

 Nuclear
 refueling outage expenses

 

 

19,186

 

 

 

17,266

 

 

 

16,699

 

 Other
 operation and maintenance

 

 

120,707

 

 

 

120,165

 

 

 

118,304

 

Decommissioning

 

 

29,451

 

 

 

27,642

 

 

 

25,713

 

Taxes
 other than income taxes

 

 

24,246

 

 

 

15,896

 

 

 

26,242

 

Depreciation
 and amortization

 

 

140,056

 

 

 

126,441

 

 

 

122,765

 

Other
 regulatory credits - net

 

 

(17,525

)

 

 

(12,151

)

 

 

(8,854

)

TOTAL

 

 

379,998

 

 

 

339,765

 

 

 

343,667

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 INCOME

 

 

174,009

 

 

 

189,233

 

 

 

209,526

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
 INCOME

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Allowance
 for equity funds used during construction

 

 

12,484

 

 

 

4,910

 

 

 

3,178

 

Interest
 and dividend income

 

 

4,507

 

 

 

12,086

 

 

 

24,515

 

Miscellaneous
 - net

 

 

(1,813

)

 

 

(643

)

 

 

382

 

TOTAL

 

 

15,178

 

 

 

16,353

 

 

 

28,075

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INTEREST
 AND OTHER CHARGES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Interest
 on long-term debt

 

 

47,422

 

 

 

56,404

 

 

 

56,966

 

Other
 interest - net

 

 

148

 

 

 

263

 

 

 

151

 

Allowance
 for borrowed funds used during construction

 

 

(4,192

)

 

 

(1,642

)

 

 

(1,044

)

TOTAL

 

 

43,378

 

 

 

55,025

 

 

 

56,073

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INCOME
 BEFORE INCOME TAXES

 

 

145,809

 

 

 

150,561

 

 

 

181,528

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Income
 taxes

 

 

96,901

 

 

 

59,494

 

 

 

45,447

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NET
 INCOME

 

$

48,908

 

 

$

91,067

 

 

$

136,081

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

389

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Page left blank intentionally)

 

 

390

 

 

 

SYSTEM
 ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.

 

STATEMENTS
 OF CASH FLOWS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPERATING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net
 income

 

$

48,908

 

 

$

91,067

 

 

$

136,081

 

Adjustments
 to reconcile net income to net cash flow provided by operating
 activities:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Other
 regulatory credits - net

 

 

(17,525

)

 

 

(12,151

)

 

 

(8,854

)

 Depreciation,
 amortization, and decommissioning

 

 

169,507

 

 

 

154,083

 

 

 

148,478

 

 Deferred
 income taxes, investment tax credits, and non-current taxes
 accrued

 

 

211,297

 

 

 

65,339

 

 

 

(37,827

)

 Changes
 in working capital:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Receivables

 

 

(2,296

)

 

 

11,621

 

 

 

(8,741

)

 Accounts
 payable

 

 

11,574

 

 

 

(146

)

 

 

9,814

 

 Preapaid
 taxes and taxes accrued

 

 

5,413

 

 

 

(67,185

)

 

 

(47,988

)

 Interest
 accrued

 

 

2,667

 

 

 

1,187

 

 

 

1,268

 

 Other
 working capital accounts

 

 

11,672

 

 

 

(18,090

)

 

 

(23,841

)

 Provision
 for estimated losses and reserves

 

 

(16

)

 

 

(444

)

 

 

47

 

 Changes
 in other regulatory assets

 

 

(4,824

)

 

 

(29,649

)

 

 

15,250

 

 Changes
 in pension and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

3,440

 

 

 

41,977

 

 

 

(2,029

)

 Other

 

 

(21,940

)

 

 

(19,071

)

 

 

40,243

 

Net
 cash flow provided by operating activities

 

 

417,877

 

 

 

218,538

 

 

 

221,901

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INVESTING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Construction
 expenditures

 

 

(90,778

)

 

 

(85,515

)

 

 

(84,108

)

Allowance
 for equity funds used during construction

 

 

12,484

 

 

 

4,910

 

 

 

3,178

 

Nuclear
 fuel purchases

 

 

-

 

 

 

(76,527

)

 

 

(56,264

)

Proceeds
 from sale/leaseback of nuclear fuel

 

 

180

 

 

 

76,530

 

 

 

56,580

 

Proceeds
 from nuclear decommissioning trust fund sales

 

 

392,959

 

 

 

483,380

 

 

 

105,751

 

Investment
 in nuclear decommissioning trust funds

 

 

(416,597

)

 

 

(510,437

)

 

 

(134,176

)

Change
 in money pool receivable - net

 

 

(47,592

)

 

 

10,705

 

 

 

12,084

 

Net
 cash flow used in investing activities

 

 

(149,344

)

 

 

(96,954

)

 

 

(96,955

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FINANCING
 ACTIVITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Proceeds
 from the issuance of long-term debt

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

 

 

69,482

 

Retirement
 of long-term debt

 

 

(28,440

)

 

 

(26,701

)

 

 

(93,335

)

Dividends
 paid:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Common
 stock

 

 

(75,300

)

 

 

(97,100

)

 

 

(131,100

)

Other

 

 

(3,099

)

 

 

-

 

 

 

-

 

Net
 cash flow used in financing activities

 

 

(106,839

)

 

 

(123,801

)

 

 

(154,953

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net
 increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

 

 

161,694

 

 

 

(2,217

)

 

 

(30,007

)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at beginning of period

 

 

102,788

 

 

 

105,005

 

 

 

135,012

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents at end of period

 

$

264,482

 

 

$

102,788

 

 

$

105,005

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SUPPLEMENTAL
 DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 paid (received) during the period for:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Interest
 - net of amount capitalized

 

$

39,611

 

 

$

50,340

 

 

$

50,437

 

 Income
 taxes

 

$

(120,352

)

 

$

54,436

 

 

$

85,105

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

391

 

 

SYSTEM
 ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.

 

BALANCE
 SHEETS

 

ASSETS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

December
 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT
 ASSETS

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cash
 and cash equivalents:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Cash

 

$

926

 

 

$

250

 

 Temporary
 cash investments

 

 

263,556

 

 

 

102,538

 

 Total
 cash and cash equivalents

 

 

264,482

 

 

 

102,788

 

Accounts
 receivable:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

139,602

 

 

 

91,119

 

 Other

 

 

4,479

 

 

 

3,074

 

 Total
 accounts receivable

 

 

144,081

 

 

 

94,193

 

Note
 receivable - Entergy New Orleans

 

 

25,560

 

 

 

-

 

Materials
 and supplies - at average cost

 

 

80,934

 

 

 

74,496

 

Deferred
 nuclear refueling outage costs

 

 

8,432

 

 

 

26,485

 

Prepaid
 taxes

 

 

69,366

 

 

 

74,779

 

Prepayments
 and other

 

 

936

 

 

 

993

 

TOTAL

 

 

593,791

 

 

 

373,734

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OTHER
 PROPERTY AND INVESTMENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Decommissioning
 trust funds

 

 

327,046

 

 

 

268,822

 

Note
 receivable - Entergy New Orleans

 

 

-

 

 

 

25,560

 

TOTAL

 

 

327,046

 

 

 

294,382

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UTILITY
 PLANT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Electric

 

 

3,324,876

 

 

 

3,314,473

 

Property
 under capital lease

 

 

481,065

 

 

 

479,933

 

Construction
 work in progress

 

 

198,887

 

 

 

122,952

 

Nuclear
 fuel under capital lease

 

 

75,438

 

 

 

125,416

 

Nuclear
 fuel

 

 

9,333

 

 

 

7,448

 

TOTAL
 UTILITY PLANT

 

 

4,089,599

 

 

 

4,050,222

 

Less
 - accumulated depreciation and amortization

 

 

2,315,141

 

 

 

2,206,780

 

UTILITY
 PLANT - NET

 

 

1,774,458

 

 

 

1,843,442

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DEFERRED
 DEBITS AND OTHER ASSETS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Regulatory
 assets:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Regulatory
 asset for income taxes - net

 

 

101,915

 

 

 

89,473

 

 Other
 regulatory assets

 

 

290,048

 

 

 

333,389

 

Other

 

 

11,824

 

 

 

10,970

 

TOTAL

 

 

403,787

 

 

 

433,832

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
 ASSETS

 

$

3,099,082

 

 

$

2,945,390

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

392

 

 

 

 

SYSTEM
 ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.

BALANCE
 SHEETS

LIABILITIES
 AND SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

December
 31,

 

 
 

 

 

2009

 

 

 

2008

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CURRENT
 LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Currently
 maturing long-term debt

 

$

41,715

 

 

$

28,440

 

Accounts
 payable:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Associated
 companies

 

 

5,349

 

 

 

2,723

 

 Other

 

 

45,826

 

 

 

35,215

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes

 

 

3,040

 

 

 

9,645

 

Interest
 accrued

 

 

51,257

 

 

 

48,590

 

Obligations
 under capital leases

 

 

50,445

 

 

 

37,619

 

TOTAL

 

 

197,632

 

 

 

162,232

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NON-CURRENT
 LIABILITIES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Accumulated
 deferred income taxes and taxes accrued

 

 

588,722

 

 

 

365,134

 

Accumulated
 deferred investment tax credits

 

 

58,231

 

 

 

61,708

 

Obligations
 under capital leases

 

 

24,993

 

 

 

87,797

 

Other
 regulatory liabilities

 

 

197,437

 

 

 

197,051

 

Decommissioning

 

 

421,408

 

 

 

396,201

 

Accumulated
 provisions

 

 

2,009

 

 

 

2,025

 

Pension
 and other postretirement liabilities

 

 

75,448

 

 

 

72,008

 

Long-term
 debt

 

 

703,260

 

 

 

744,900

 

TOTAL

 

 

2,071,508

 

 

 

1,926,824

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Commitments
 and Contingencies

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SHAREHOLDER'S
 EQUITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Common
 stock, no par value, authorized 1,000,000 shares;

 

 

 

 

 

 issued
 and outstanding 789,350 shares in 2009 and 2008

 

 

789,350

 

 

 

789,350

 

Retained
 earnings

 

 

40,592

 

 

 

66,984

 

TOTAL

 

 

829,942

 

 

 

856,334

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TOTAL
 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY

 

$

3,099,082

 

 

$

2,945,390

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

393

 

 

 

SYSTEM
 ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.

 

STATEMENTS
 OF RETAINED EARNINGS

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

For
 the Years Ended December 31,

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 
 

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Retained
 Earnings, January 1

 

$

66,984

 

 

$

73,017

 

 

$

68,036

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Add:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Net
 income

 

 

48,908

 

 

 

91,067

 

 

 

136,081

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deduct:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Dividends
 declared

 

 

75,300

 

 

 

97,100

 

 

 

131,100

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Retained
 Earnings, December 31

 

$

40,592

 

 

$

66,984

 

 

$

73,017

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

See
 Notes to Financial Statements.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

394

 

 

 

SYSTEM
 ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.

 

SELECTED
 FINANCIAL DATA - FIVE-YEAR COMPARISON

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

2009

 

 

2008

 

 

2007

 

 

2006

 

 

2005

 

 
 

 

(Dollars
 In Thousands)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Operating
 revenues

 

$

554,007

 

 

$

528,998

 

 

$

553,193

 

 

$

555,459

 

 

$

533,929

 

Net
 Income

 

$

48,908

 

 

$

91,067

 

 

$

136,081

 

 

$

140,258

 

 

$

111,644

 

Total
 assets

 

$

3,099,082

 

 

$

2,945,390

 

 

$

2,858,760

 

 

$

2,858,760

 

 

$

3,046,039

 

Long-term
 obligations (1)

 

$

728,253

 

 

$

832,697

 

 

$

824,824

 

 

$

752,052

 

 

$

882,949

 

Electric
 energy sales (GWh)

 

 

9,898

 

 

 

8,475

 

 

 

8,440

 

 

 

9,727

 

 

 

9,070

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1) Includes
 long-term debt (excluding currently maturing debt) and noncurrent capital
 lease obligations.

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

395

 

 

Item
2. 
Properties

Information regarding the registrant's
properties is included in Part I. Item 1. - Business under the sections titled
"
Utility - Property and Other
Generation Resources
" and "
Non-Utility
Nuclear
 -
Property
" in this report.

Item
3. 
Legal
Proceedings

Details of the registrant's material
environmental regulation and proceedings and other regulatory proceedings and
litigation that are pending or those terminated in the fourth quarter of 2009
are discussed in Part I. Item 1. - Business under the sections titled
"
Retail Rate
Regulation
", "
Environmental Regulation
",
and
 
"
Litigation
" in this
report.

Item
4. 
Submission of Matters to a
Vote of Security Holders

During the fourth quarter of 2009, no
matters were submitted to a vote of the security holders of Entergy Corporation,
Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy
Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, or System Energy.

EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF ENTERGY CORPORATION

Executive
Officers

Name

Age

Position

 
 

Period

J.
 Wayne Leonard (a)

59

Chairman
 of the Board of Entergy Corporation

 
 

2006-Present

 
 

 
 

Chief
 Executive Officer and Director of Entergy Corporation

 
 

1999-Present

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith (a)

58

President
 and Chief Operating Officer of Entergy Corporation

 
 

2007-Present

 
 

 
 

Group
 President, Utility Operations of Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas,
 Entergy Gulf States, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy
 New Orleans

 
 

2001-2007

 
 

 
 

Director
 of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States, Entergy Louisiana and Entergy
 Mississippi

 
 

2001-2007

 
 

 
 

Director
 of Entergy New Orleans

 
 

2001-2005

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Gary
 J. Taylor (a)

56

Group
 President, Utility Operations of Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas,
 Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi and
 Entergy Texas

 
 

2007-Present

 
 

 
 

Director
 of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
 Entergy Mississippi and Entergy Texas

 
 

2007-Present

 
 

 
 

Director
 of Entergy New Orleans

 
 

2008-Present

 
 

 
 

Executive
 Vice President and Chief Nuclear Officer of Entergy
 Corporation

 
 

2004-2007

 
 

 
 

Director,
 President and Chief Executive Officer of System Energy

 
 

2003-2007

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault (a)

50

Executive
 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Entergy
 Corporation

 
 

2004-Present

 
 

 
 

Director
 of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
 Entergy Mississippi and System Energy

 
 

2004-Present

 
 

 
 

Director
 of Entergy Texas

 
 

2007-Present

 
 

 
 

Director
 of Entergy New Orleans

 
 

2004-2005

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

396

 

 

 

Curtis
 L. Hebert, Jr. (a)

47

Executive
 Vice President, External Affairs of Entergy Corporation

 
 

2001-Present

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

John
 T. Herron (a)

56

President
 and Chief Executive Officer Nuclear Operations/ Chief Nuclear Officer of
 Entergy Corporation

 
 

2009-Present

 
 

 
 

Senior
 Vice President, Nuclear Operations

 
 

2007-2009

 
 

 
 

Senior
 Vice President, Chief Operating Officer of Entergy Nuclear
 Northeast

 
 

2003-2007

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Mark
 T. Savoff (a)

53

Executive
 Vice President, Operations of Entergy Corporation

 
 

2004-Present

 
 

 
 

Director
 of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana and
 Entergy Mississippi

 
 

2004-Present

 
 

 
 

Director
 of Entergy Texas

 
 

2007-Present

 
 

 
 

Director
 of Entergy New Orleans

 
 

2004-2005

 
 

 
 

Executive
 Vice President of Entergy Services, Inc.

 
 

2003-Present

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Robert
 D. Sloan (a)

62

Executive
 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Entergy Corporation,
 Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
 Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and System
Energy

 
 

2004-Present

 
 

 
 

Executive
 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Entergy
 Texas

 
 

2007-Present

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr. (a)

51

Senior
 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Entergy Corporation,
 Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
 Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas and System
 Energy

 
 

2007-Present

 
 

 
 

Acting
 principal financial officer of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States
 Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans and
 Entergy Texas

 
 

2008-Present

 
 

 
 

Vice
 President and Chief Financial Officer, Nuclear Operations of System
 Energy

 
 

2004-2007

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Terry
 R. Seamons (a)

68

Senior
 Vice President - Human Resources and Administration of Entergy
 Corporation

 
 

2007-Present

 
 

 
 

Vice
 President and Managing Director of RHR, International

 
 

1984-2007

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

(a)

In
 addition, this officer is an executive officer and/or director of various
 other wholly owned subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation and its operating
 companies.

Each officer of Entergy Corporation is
elected yearly by the Board of Directors.

 

397

 

 

PART
II

Item
5. 
Market for Registrants'
Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Entergy
Corporation

The shares of Entergy Corporation's
common stock are listed on the New York Stock and Chicago Stock Exchanges under
the ticker symbol ETR.

The high and low prices of Entergy
Corporation's common stock for each quarterly period in 2009 and 2008 were as
follows:

 
 

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

High

 
 

Low

 
 

High

 
 

Low

 
 

(In
 Dollars)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

First

86.61

 
 

59.87

 
 

127.48

 
 

99.45

Second

78.78

 
 

63.39

 
 

123.27

 
 

107.94

Third

82.39

 
 

71.76

 
 

122.88

 
 

83.78

Fourth

84.44

 
 

76.10

 
 

89.76

 
 

61.93

Consecutive quarterly cash dividends on
common stock were paid to stockholders of Entergy Corporation in 2009 and
2008. Quarterly dividends of $0.75 per share were paid in 2009 and
2008.

As of January 30, 2010, there were
38,480 stockholders of record of Entergy Corporation.

Unregistered
Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds

Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities (1)

Period

 
 

Total
 Number of

Shares
 Purchased

 
 

Average
 Price Paid

per
 Share

 
 

Total
 Number of

Shares
 Purchased as Part of a Publicly

Announced
 Plan

 
 

Maximum
 $ Amount

of
 Shares that May

Yet
 be Purchased Under a Plan (2)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

10/01/2009-10/31/2009

 
 

-

 
 

$-

 
 

-

 
 

$750,000,000

11/01/2009-11/30/2009

 
 

-

 
 

$-

 
 

-

 
 

$750,000,000

12/01/2009-12/31/2009

 
 

-

 
 

$-

 
 

-

 
 

$750,000,000

Total

 
 

-

 
 

$-

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

(1) 

In
 accordance with Entergy's stock-based compensation plans, Entergy
 periodically grants stock options to key employees, which may be exercised
 to obtain shares of Entergy's common stock. According to the
 plans, these shares can be newly issued shares, treasury stock, or shares
 purchased on the open market. Entergy's management has been
 authorized by the Board to repurchase on the open market shares up to an
 amount sufficient to fund the exercise of grants under the
 plans. In addition to this authority, on January 29, 2007, the
 Board approved a repurchase program under which Entergy is authorized to
 repurchase up to $1.5 billion of its common stock. In January
 2008, the Board authorized an incremental $500 million share repurchase
 program to enable Entergy to consider opportunistic purchases in response
 to equity market conditions. In 2009, Entergy repurchased
 7,680,000 shares of common stock under both programs for a total purchase
 price of $613 million. Entergy completed both the $1.5 billion
 and $500 million programs in the third quarter 2009. In October
 2009 the Board granted authority for an additional $750 million share
 repurchase program. See Note 12 to the financial statements for
 additional discussion of the stock-based compensation
 plans.

(2) 

Maximum
 amount of shares that may yet be repurchased does not include an estimate
 of the amount of shares that may be purchased to fund the exercise of
 grants under the stock-based compensation
plans.

 

 

398

 

 

The
amount of share repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business
results or capital spending or new investment opportunities.

Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System
Energy

There is no market for the common stock
of Entergy Corporation's wholly owned subsidiaries. Cash dividends on
common stock paid by the Registrant Subsidiaries to Entergy Corporation during
2009 and 2008, were as follows:

 
 

 
 

2009

 
 

2008

 
 

 
 

(In
 Millions)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 Arkansas

 
 

$48.3

 
 

$24.9

Entergy
 Gulf States Louisiana

 
 

$30.7

 
 

$104.2

Entergy
 Louisiana

 
 

$20.6

 
 

$-

Entergy
 Mississippi

 
 

$51.3

 
 

$48.3

Entergy
 New Orleans

 
 

$32.9

 
 

$-

Entergy
 Texas

 
 

$119.5

 
 

$12.0

System
 Energy

 
 

$75.3

 
 

$97.1

Information with respect to
restrictions that limit the ability of the Registrant Subsidiaries to pay
dividends is presented in Note 7 to the financial statements and in "
MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF ENTERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES, ENTERGY ARKANSAS, INC.,
ENTERGY GULF STATES, LOUISIANA,
 
L.L.C., ENTERGY LOUISIANA, LLC,
ENTERGY MISSISSIPPI, INC., ENTERGY NEW ORLEANS, INC., ENTERGY TEXAS, INC., and
SYSTEM ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.
"

Item
6. 
Selected Financial
Data

Refer to 
"SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA - FIVE-YEAR
COMPARISON OF ENTERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES, ENTERGY ARKANSAS, INC.,
ENTERGY GULF STATES LOUISIANA, L.L.C.,
 
ENTERGY LOUISIANA, LLC, ENTERGY
MISSISSIPPI, INC., ENTERGY NEW ORLEANS, INC., ENTERGY TEXAS, INC., and SYSTEM
ENERGY RESOURCES, INC."
 which follow each company's financial statements
in this report, for information with respect to selected financial data and
certain operating statistics.

Item
7. 
Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Refer to 
"MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS OF ENTERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES, ENTERGY ARKANSAS, INC.,
ENTERGY GULF STATES, LOUISIANA,
 
L.L.C., ENTERGY LOUISIANA, LLC,
ENTERGY MISSISSIPPI, INC., ENTERGY NEW ORLEANS, INC., ENTERGY TEXAS, INC., and
SYSTEM ENERGY RESOURCES, INC."

 

 

399

 

 

Item
7A. 
Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk

Refer to 
"MANAGEMENT'S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
 
-

Market
and Credit Risk Sensitive Instruments
 OF ENTERGY CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES."

Item
8. 
Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

Refer to 
"TABLE OF CONTENTS - Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Inc., Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.,
Entergy Louisiana, LLC, Entergy Mississippi, Inc., Entergy New Orleans, Inc.,
Entergy Texas, Inc., and System Energy Resources, Inc."

Item
9. 
Changes In and Disagreements
With Accountants On Accounting and Financial Disclosure

No event that would be described in
response to this item has occurred with respect to Entergy Corporation, Entergy
Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi,
Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, or System Energy.

Item
9A. 
Controls and
Procedures

Disclosure
Controls and Procedures

As of December 31, 2009, evaluations
were performed under the supervision and with the participation of Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy (each
individually a "Registrant" and collectively the "Registrants") management,
including their respective Chief Executive Officers (CEO) and Chief Financial
Officers (CFO). The evaluations assessed the effectiveness of the
Registrants' disclosure controls and procedures. Based on the
evaluations, each CEO and CFO has concluded that, as to the Registrant or
Registrants for which they serve as CEO or CFO, the Registrant's or Registrants'
disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by each Registrant in reports that it files or submits
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission
rules and forms; and that the Registrant's or Registrants' disclosure controls
and procedures are also effective in reasonably assuring that such information
is accumulated and communicated to the Registrant's or Registrants' management,
including their respective CEOs and CFOs, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure.

Internal
Control over Financial Reporting

(Entergy
Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana,
Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System
Energy)

The managements of Entergy Corporation,
Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy
Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy (individually
"Registrant" and collectively the "Registrants") are responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting
for the Registrants. Each Registrant's internal control system is
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the preparation and fair
presentation of each Registrant's financial statements presented in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles.

All internal control systems, no matter
how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those
systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.

Each Registrant's management assessed
the effectiveness of each Registrant's internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2009. In making this assessment, each management
used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control - Integrated
Framework.

 

 

400

 

 

Based on each management's assessment
and the criteria set forth by COSO, each Registrant's management believes that
each Registrant maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2009.

The Registrants' registered public
accounting firm has issued an attestation report on each Registrant's internal
control over financial reporting.

Changes in Internal Control
over Financial Reporting

Under the supervision and with the
participation of the Registrants' management, including their respective CEOs
and CFOs, the Registrants evaluated changes in internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and found no
change that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, internal control over financial reporting.

 

401

 

Attestation
Report of Registered Public Accounting Firm

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Entergy
Corporation and Subsidiaries

New
Orleans, Louisiana

We have
audited the internal control over financial reporting of Entergy Corporation and
Subsidiaries (the “Corporation”) as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria
established in 
Internal
Control —Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Corporation’s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Internal Control over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Corporation’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

In our
opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on
the criteria established in 
Internal Control —Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2009 of the Corporation and our report
dated February 24, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated
financial statements and included an explanatory paragraph relating to the
adoption of a new accounting standard regarding non-controlling
interests.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

402

 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Little
Rock, Arkansas

We have
audited the internal control over financial reporting of Entergy Arkansas, Inc.
(the “Company”) as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

In our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the
criteria established in 
Internal Control — Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the financial statements as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2009 of the Company and our report dated February 24,
2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

403

 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Members of

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Baton
Rouge, Louisiana

We have
audited the internal control over financial reporting of Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana, L.L.C. (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2009, based on
criteria established in 
Internal Control — Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

In our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the
criteria established in 
Internal Control — Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the financial statements as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2009 of the Company and our report dated February 24,
2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

404

 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Members of

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

Baton
Rouge, Louisiana

We have
audited the internal control over financial reporting of Entergy Louisiana, LLC
(the “Company”) as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

In our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the
criteria established in 
Internal Control — Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the financial statements as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2009 of the Company and our report dated February 24,
2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

405

 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Entergy
Mississippi, Inc.

Jackson,
Mississippi

We have
audited the internal control over financial reporting of Entergy Mississippi,
Inc. (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established
in 
Internal Control —
Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in the accompanying Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

In our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the
criteria established in 
Internal Control — Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the financial statements as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2009 of the Company and our report dated February 24,
2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

406

 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Entergy
New Orleans, Inc.

New
Orleans, Louisiana

We have
audited the internal control over financial reporting of Entergy New Orleans,
Inc. (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

In our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria
established in 
Internal
Control—Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the financial statements as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2009 of the Company and our report dated February 24, 2010
expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

407

 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholder of

Entergy
Texas, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Beaumont,
Texas

We have
audited the internal control over financial reporting of Entergy Texas, Inc. and
Subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2009, based on
criteria established in 
Internal Control — Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

In our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the
criteria established in 
Internal Control — Integrated
Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2009 of the Company and our report dated
February 24, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated
financial statements.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

408

 

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholder of

System
Energy Resources, Inc.

Jackson,
Mississippi

We have
audited the internal control over financial reporting of System Energy
Resources, Inc. (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria
established in 
Internal
Control — Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Internal Control over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal
financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the
company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting,
including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of
controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods
are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

In our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria
established in 
Internal
Control — Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We have
also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the financial statements as of and for the year
ended December 31, 2009 of the Company and our report dated February 24, 2010
expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

409

 

PART
III

Item
10. 
Directors and Executive
Officers of the Registrants
 (Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas,
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy
New Orleans and Entergy Texas)

Information required by this item
concerning directors of Entergy Corporation is set forth under the heading “Item
1 – Election of Directors” contained in the Proxy Statement of Entergy
Corporation, to be filed in connection with its Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held May 7, 2010, and is incorporated herein by reference.

All officers and directors listed below
held the specified positions with their respective companies as of the date of
filing this report, unless otherwise noted.

Name

Age

Position

 
 

Period

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

ENTERGY
 
ARKANSAS,
 INC.

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Directors

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Hugh
 T. McDonald

51

President
 and Chief Executive Officer of Entergy Arkansas

 
 

2000-Present

 
 

 
 

Director
 of Entergy Arkansas

 
 

2000-Present

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Mark
 T. Savoff

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Gary
 J. Taylor

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Officers

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Curtis
 L. Hebert, Jr.

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

John
 T. Herron

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Hugh
 T. McDonald

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Arkansas Directors Section
 above.

 
 

 
 

Mark
 T. Savoff

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Terry
 R. Seamons

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Robert
 D. Sloan

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Gary
 J. Taylor

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 

 

ENTERGY
 GULF STATES LOUISIANA, L.L.C.

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Directors

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

E.
 Renae Conley

52

Director
 of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana

 
 

2000-Present

 
 

 
 

President
 and Chief Executive Officer of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy
 Louisiana

 
 

2000-Present

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Mark
 T. Savoff

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Gary
 J. Taylor

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 

 

410

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Officers

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

E.
 Renae Conley

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Gulf States Louisiana Directors Section
 above.

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Curtis
 L. Hebert, Jr.

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

John
 T. Herron

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Mark
 T. Savoff

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Terry
 R. Seamons

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Robert
 D. Sloan

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Gary
 J. Taylor

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

ENTERGY
 LOUISIANA, LLC

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Directors

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

E.
 Renae Conley

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Gulf States Louisiana Directors Section
 above.

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Mark
 T. Savoff

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Gary
 J. Taylor

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Officers

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

E.
 Renae Conley

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Gulf States Louisiana Directors Section
 above.

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Curtis
 L. Hebert, Jr.

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

John
 T. Herron

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Mark
 T. Savoff

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Terry
 R. Seamons

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Robert
 D. Sloan

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Gary
 J. Taylor

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

ENTERGY
 MISSISSIPPI, INC.

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Directors

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Haley
 R. Fisackerly

44

President
 and Chief Executive Officer of Entergy Mississippi

 
 

2008-Present

 
 

 
 

Director
 of Entergy Mississippi

 
 

2008-Present

 
 

 
 

Vice
 President, Nuclear Government Affairs of Entergy Services,
 Inc.

 
 

2007-2008

 
 

 
 

Vice
 President, Customer Service of Entergy Mississippi

 
 

2002-2007

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Mark
 T. Savoff

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Gary
 J. Taylor

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

411

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Officers

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Haley
 R. Fisackerly

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Mississippi Directors Section
 above.

 
 

 
 

Curtis
 L. Hebert, Jr.

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

John
 T. Herron

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Mark
 T. Savoff

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Terry
 R. Seamons

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Robert
 D. Sloan

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Gary
 J. Taylor

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 

 

ENTERGY
 NEW ORLEANS, INC.

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Directors

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Roderick
 K. West

41

President
 and Chief Executive Officer of Entergy New Orleans

 
 

2007-Present

 
 

 
 

Director
 of Entergy New Orleans

 
 

2005-Present

 
 

 
 

Director,
 Metro Distribution Operations of Entergy Services, Inc.

 
 

2005-2006

 
 

 
 

Region
 Manager, Distribution Operations of Entergy Services, Inc.

 
 

2003-2005

Sherri
 Winslow

50

Director
 of Entergy New Orleans

 
 

2008-Present

 
 

 
 

Vice
 President, Gas Distribution Business of Entergy Services,
 Inc.

 
 

2008-Present

 
 

 
 

Director,
 Employee Development of Entergy Services, Inc.

 
 

2006-2008

 
 

 
 

Director,
 Customer Service Process Improvement of Entergy Services,
 Inc.

 
 

2006-2006

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Gary
 J. Taylor

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Officers

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 
 

Curtis
 L. Hebert, Jr.

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 
 

John
 T. Herron

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 
 

Mark
 T. Savoff

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 
 

Terry
 R. Seamons

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 
 

Robert
 D. Sloan

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 
 

Gary
 J. Taylor

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 
 

Roderick
 K. West

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy New Orleans Directors Section
 above.

 
 

 
 

 
 

ENTERGY
 TEXAS, INC.

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Directors

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Joseph
 F. Domino

61

Director
 of Entergy Texas

 
 

2007-Present

 
 

 
 

President
 and Chief Executive Officer of Entergy Texas

 
 

2007-Present

 
 

 
 

Director
 of Entergy Gulf States

 
 

1999-2007

 
 

 
 

President
 and Chief Executive Officer - TX of Entergy Gulf States

 
 

1998-2007

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Mark
 T. Savoff

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Gary
 J. Taylor

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 

 

412

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Officers

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Joseph
 F. Domino

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Texas Directors Section
 above.

 
 

 
 

Curtis
 L. Hebert, Jr.

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

John
 T. Herron

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Mark
 T. Savoff

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Terry
 R. Seamons

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Robert
 D. Sloan

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

Gary
 J. Taylor

 
 

See
 information under the Entergy Corporation Officers Section in Part
 I.

 
 

 
 

 

Each director and officer of the
applicable Entergy company is elected yearly to serve by the unanimous consent
of the sole stockholder with the exception of the directors and officers of
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C. and Entergy Louisiana, LLC, who are
elected yearly to serve by the unanimous consent of the sole common membership
owners, EGS Holdings, Inc. and Entergy Louisiana Holdings,
respectively. Entergy Corporation’s directors are elected annually at
the annual meeting of shareholders. Entergy Corporation’s officers
are elected at the annual meeting of the Board of Directors.

Corporate
Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters

Each of the Audit, Corporate Governance
and Personnel Committees of Entergy Corporation's Board of Directors operates
under a written charter. In addition, the full Board has adopted
Corporate Governance Guidelines. Each charter and the guidelines are available
through Entergy's website (www.entergy.com) or upon written
request.

Audit
Committee of the Entergy Corporation Board

The following directors are members of
the Audit Committee of Entergy Corporation's Board of Directors:

Steven V.
Wilkinson (Chairman)

Maureen
S. Bateman

Stuart L.
Levenick

James R.
Nichols

All Audit
Committee members are independent. For purposes of independence of
members of the Audit Committee, an independent director also may not accept
directly or indirectly any consulting, advisory or other compensatory fee from
Entergy or be affiliated with Entergy as defined in SEC rules. All
Audit Committee members possess the level of financial literacy and accounting
or related financial management expertise required by the NYSE
rules. Steven V. Wilkinson qualifies as an "audit committee financial
expert," as that term is defined in the SEC rules.

 

413

 

Code
of Ethics

The Board of Directors has adopted a
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of
Directors. The code is available through Entergy's website
(www.entergy.com) or upon written request. The Board has also adopted
a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees, that includes Special
Provision Relating to Principal Executive Officer and Senior Financial
Officers. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees is to
be read in conjunction with Entergy's omnibus code of integrity under which
Entergy operates called the Code of Entegrity as well as system
policies. All employees are required to abide by the
Codes. Non-bargaining employees are required to acknowledge annually
that they understand and abide by the Code of Entegrity. The Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees and the Code of Entegrity are
available through Entergy's website (www.entergy.com) or upon written
request.

Source
of Nominations to the Board of Directors; Nominating Procedure

The Corporate Governance Committee has
adopted a policy on consideration of potential director nominees. The
Committee will consider nominees from a variety of sources, including nominees
suggested by shareholders, executive officers, fellow board members, or a third
party firm retained for that purpose. It applies the same procedures
to all nominees regardless of the source of the nomination.

 
 

Any party wishing to make a nomination
should provide a written resume of the proposed candidate, detailing relevant
experience and qualifications, as well as a list of references. The
Committee will review the resume and may contact references. It will
decide based on the resume and references whether to proceed to a more detailed
investigation. If the Committee determines that a more detailed investigation of
the candidate is warranted, it will invite the candidate for a personal
interview, conduct a background check on the candidate, and assess the ability
of the candidate to provide any special skills or characteristics identified by
the Committee or the Board.

Section
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance

Information called for by this item
concerning the directors and officers of Entergy Corporation is set forth in the
Proxy Statement of Entergy Corporation to be filed in connection with its Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 7, 2010, under the heading "Section
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance", which information is
incorporated herein by reference.

 

414

 

Item
11. 
Executive
Compensation

ENTERGY
CORPORATION

Information concerning the directors
and officers of Entergy Corporation is set forth in the Proxy Statement under
the headings "Compensation Discussion and Analysis," "Executive Compensation
Tables," "Nominees for the Board of Directors," and "Non-Employee Director
Compensation," all of which information is incorporated herein by
reference.

ENTERGY
ARKANSAS, ENTERGY GULF STATES LOUISIANA, ENTERGY LOUISIANA, ENTERGY MISSISSIPPI,
ENTERGY NEW ORLEANS AND ENTERGY TEXAS

COMPENSATION
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Introduction

In this
section, the salaries and other compensation elements paid in 2009 to the Chief
Executive Officers ("CEOs"), the Principal Financial Officer ("PFO"), the three
other most highly compensated executive officers other than the CEO and PFO
(collectively, the "Named Executive Officers") of each of Entergy Arkansas,
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy
New Orleans and Entergy Texas (the "Subsidiaries") are discussed and
analyzed. The purpose of this section is to provide investors with
material information necessary to understand the compensation policies for the
Named Executive Officers. This section should be read in combination
with the more detailed compensation tables and other data presented elsewhere in
this report. For information regarding the compensation of the named
executive officers of Entergy Corporation, see the Proxy Statement of Entergy
Corporation.

The Named
Executive Officers are identified in the Summary Compensation Table immediately
following this Compensation Discussion and Analysis. Mr. Leonard, Mr.
Denault and Mr. Smith also serve as executive officers of Entergy
Corporation. Mr. Leonard, Mr. Denault and Mr. Smith do not receive
additional compensation for serving as Named Executive Officers of the
Subsidiaries. For more information about the officers of the
Subsidiaries, see Part III, Item 10 of this report.

Executive
Summary

The
compensation program for the Named Executive Officers has been designed to
attract, retain, motivate and reward executives who can contribute to the
long-term success and thereby build value for the shareholders of Entergy
Corporation.

The
executive compensation package is comprised of a combination of short-term and
long-term compensation elements. Short-term compensation includes
base pay and annual cash bonus awards. Long-term compensation
includes stock options and performance units.

The
executive compensation program is approved by the Personnel Committee of Entergy
Corporation, which is comprised entirely of independent board
members.

 

415

 

The
following table summarizes the principal factors that are taken into account in
deciding the amount of each compensation element paid or awarded to the
executives:

Key Compensation Components

(where reported in summary

compensation table)

Factors

Base
 Salary

(salary,
 column, c)

-
 
Entergy
 Corporation, business unit and individual performance

-
 
Market
 data

-
 
Internal
 pay equity

-
 
The
 Committee's assessment of other elements of compensation

 

Non-Equity
 Incentive Plan

 Compensation

(non-equity
 plan compensation, 
column
 g)

-
 
Compensation
 practices at the peer group companies and the general market
 for 
 companies Entergy Corporation's size

-
 
Desire
 to ensure that a substantial portion of total compensation is
 performance-based

-
 
The
 Committee's assessment of other elements of compensation

-
 
Entergy
 Corporation and individual performance

 

Performance
 Units

(stock
 awards, column e)

-
 
Compensation
 practices at Entergy peer group companies and in broader group
 of
 utility companies

-
 
Target
 long-term compensation values in the market for similar jobs

-
 
The
 desire to ensure that a substantial portion of total compensation is
 performance- 

 
 based

-
 
The
 Committee's assessment of other elements of compensation

 

Stock
 Options

(options,
 column f)

-
 
Individual
 performance

-
 
Prevailing
 market practice

-
 
Targeted
 long-term value created by the use of stock options

-
 
Potential
 dilutive effect of stock option grants

-
 
The
 Committee's assessment of other elements of compensation

 

Compensation
decisions for each executive officer are made after taking into account all
elements of the officer's compensation. In making compensation
decisions, the same compensation policies are applied to all of the executive
officers; however, the application of these policies results in different
compensation amounts to individual executive officers because of: (i)
differences in roles and responsibilities; (ii) differences in market-based
compensation levels for specific officer positions; (iii) the assessment of
individual performance; and (iv) variations in business unit
performance.

Objectives of the Executive
Compensation Program

· 

The
 greatest part of the compensation of the Named Executive Officers should
 be in the form of "at risk" performance-based
 compensation.

The
compensation programs are designed to ensure that a significant percentage of
the total compensation of the Named Executive Officers is contingent on
achievement of performance goals that drive total shareholder return and result
in increases in Entergy Corporation's common stock price. For
example, each of the annual cash incentive and long-term performance unit
programs is designed to pay out if Entergy Corporation achieves pre-established
performance goals. Assuming achievement of these performance goals at
target level, approximately 80% of the annual target total compensation
(excluding non-qualified supplemental retirement income) of Entergy
Corporation's Chief Executive Officer is represented by performance-based
compensation and the remaining 20% is represented by base salary. For
Mr. Denault and Mr. Smith, assuming achievement of performance goals at the
target levels, approximately 65% of the annual target total compensation
(excluding non-qualified supplemental retirement income) is represented by
performance-based compensation and the remaining 35% by base
salary. For substantially all of the other Named Executive Officers,
assuming achievement of performance goals at the target levels, at

 

 

416

 

 

least 50%
of the annual target total compensation (excluding non-qualified supplemental
retirement income) is represented by performance-based compensation and the
remaining 50% by base salary. Entergy Corporation's Chief Executive
Officer's total compensation is at greater risk than the other Named Executive
Officers, reflecting both market practice and acknowledging the leadership role
of the Chief Executive Officer in setting company policy and
strategies.

· 

A
 substantial portion of the Named Executive Officers' compensation should
 be delivered in the form of equity
awards.

To align
the economic interests of the Named Executive Officers with the shareholders of
Entergy Corporation, Entergy Corporation believes a substantial portion of their
total compensation should be in the form of equity-based
awards. Awards are typically granted in the form of stock options
with a three-year vesting schedule and performance units with a three-year
performance cycle. Stock options are generally subject only to
time-based vesting. Performance units pay out only if Entergy Corporation
achieves specified performance targets. The amount of payout depends on the
level of performance achieved.

· 

The
 compensation programs of Entergy Corporation and the Subsidiaries should
 enable the companies to attract, retain and motivate executive talent by
 offering compensation packages that are competitive but
 fair.

It is in
the shareholders' best interests that Entergy Corporation and the
Subsidiaries
 
attract and retain
talented executives by offering compensation packages that are competitive, but
fair. Entergy Corporation's Personnel Committee has sought to develop
compensation programs that deliver total target compensation in aggregate at
approximately the 50
th

percentile of the market.

The Starting
Point

To
develop a competitive compensation program, the Personnel Committee on an annual
basis reviews base salary and other compensation data from two
sources:

· 

Survey
 Data
: The Committee uses published and private
 compensation survey data to develop marketplace compensation levels for
 executive officers. The data, which is compiled by the
 Committee's independent compensation consultant, compares the current
 compensation levels received by each of the executive officers against the
 compensation levels received by executives holding similar positions at
 companies with corporate revenues consistent with the revenues of Entergy
 Corporation. For non-industry specific positions such as a
 chief financial officer, the Committee reviews general industry
 data. For management positions that are industry-specific such
 as Group President, Utility Operations, the Committee reviews data from
 energy services companies. The survey data reviewed by the
 Committee covers approximately 300 public and private companies in general
 industry and approximately 70 public and private companies in the energy
 services sector. In evaluating compensation levels against the
 survey data, the Committee considers only the aggregated survey
 data. The identity of the companies comprising the survey data
 is not disclosed to, or considered by, the Committee in its
 decision-making process and, thus, is not considered material by the
 Committee.

The
Committee uses the survey data to develop compensation programs that deliver
total target compensation at approximately the 50
th

percentile of the surveyed companies. This survey data is used as the primary
data for purposes of determining target compensation. For this
purpose, the Committee reviews the results of the survey data (organized in
tabular format) comparing each of the Named Executive Officer's compensation
relative to the 25
th
,
50
th
 (or
median) and 75
th

percentile of the surveyed companies. The Committee considers its
objectives to have been met if Entergy Corporation's Chief Executive Officer,
the executive officers who constitute what is referred to as the Office of the
Chief Executive, considered as a group (9 officers including Mr. Denault and Mr.
Smith) and the other Named Executive Officers have a target compensation package
that falls within the range of 90 - 110 percent of the 50th percentile of the
surveyed companies. In 2009, in the aggregate the target compensation
of all of the Named Executive Officers fell within this range. Actual
compensation received by an individual officer may be above or below the 50
th

percentile based on an individual officer's skills, performance and
responsibilities.

 

417

 

 

 

· 

Proxy
 Analysis
: Although the survey data described above
 is the primary data source used in determining compensation, the Committee
 reviews data derived from proxy statements as an additional point of
 analysis. The proxy data is used to compare the compensation
 levels of executive officers against the compensation levels of the
 corresponding executive officers from 18 of the companies included in the
 Philadelphia Utilities Index. The analysis is used by the
 Committee to evaluate the reasonableness of the Company’s compensation
 program. The proxy market data compare Entergy executive
 officers to other proxy officers based on pay rank without regard to roles
 and responsibilities. These companies
 are:

·
 
AES
 Corporation

·
 
Exelon
 Corporation

·
 
Ameren
 Corporation

·
 
FirstEnergy
 Corporation

·
 
American
 Electric Power Co. Inc.

·
 
FPL
 Group Inc.

·
 
CenterPoint
 Energy Inc.

·
 
Northeast
 Utilities

·
 
Consolidated
 Edison Inc.

·
 
PG&E
 Corporation

·
 
Dominion
 Resources Inc.

·
 
Progress
 Energy, Inc.

·
 
DTE
 Energy Company

·
 
Public
 Service Enterprise Group, Inc.

·
 
Duke
 Energy Corporation

·
 
Southern
 Company

·
 
Edison
 International

·
 
XCEL
 Energy

Elements of the Compensation
Program

The major
components of the executive compensation program are presented
below:

 

 

Short-Term
Compensation

· 

Base
 Salary

Base
salary is a component of each Named Executive Officer's compensation package
because the Committee believes it is appropriate that some portion of the
compensation that is provided to these officers be provided in a form that is a
fixed cash amount. Also, base salary remains the most common form of
payment throughout all industries. Its use ensures a competitive
compensation package to the Named Executive Officers.

The
Committee (in the case of Mr. Leonard, Mr. Denault and Mr. Smith) or certain
senior Entergy officers (in the case of the other Named Executive Officers)
determine whether to award Named Executive Officers annual merit increases in
base salary based on the following factors:

· 

Entergy
 Corporation, business unit and individual performance during the prior
 year;

· 

Market
 data;

· 

Internal
 pay equity; and

 

 

418

 

 

· 

The
 Committee's assessment of other elements of compensation provided to the
 Named Executive Officer.

The
corporate and business unit goals and objectives vary by individual officers and
include, among other things, corporate and business unit financial performance,
capital expenditures, cost containment, safety, reliability, customer service,
business development and regulatory matters.

The use
of "internal pay equity" in setting merit increases is limited to determining
whether a change in an executive officer's role and responsibilities relative to
other executive officers requires an adjustment in the officer's salary. The
Committee has not established any predetermined formula against which the base
salary of one Named Executive Officer is measured against another officer or
employee.

In
January 2009, in light of economic conditions and the projected slow growth in
executive officer salaries in 2009 based on Entergy’s review of general industry
surveys prepared by various human resource consulting firms, the Personnel
Committee decided not to increase the 2009 base salaries of the executive
officers who constitute the Office of the Chief Executive from the 2008 base
salaries.

In
addition, based on the results of this study, the 2009 base salaries for Ms.
Conley, Mr. Domino, Mr. Fisackerly, Mr. McDonald and Mr. West were not
increased. Ms. Conley, Mr. Domino, Mr. Fisackerly, Mr. McDonald and
Mr. West, however, received a cash bonus in lieu of an increase in their base
salary. See “2009 Summary Compensation Table” for the amount of the
bonus paid to each of these officers. Mr. Bunting received a 2.5%
merit increase to his 2008 base salary to reflect comparative market data for
senior accounting officers. The 2009 base salaries for the Named
Executive Officers were:

Named
 Executive

Officer

 

2009
 Base Salary

J.
 Wayne Leonard

$1,291,500

Leo
 P. Denault

$630,000

Richard
 J. Smith

$645,000

E.
 Renae Conley

$407,680

Hugh
 T. McDonald

$322,132

Joseph
 F. Domino

$317,754

Roderick
 K. West

$315,000

Theodore
 H. Bunting

$350,447

Haley
 Fisackerly

$275,000

· 

Non-Equity
 Incentive Plan (Cash Bonus)

Performance-based
incentives are included in the Named Executive Officers' compensation packages
because it encourages the Named Executive Officers to pursue objectives
consistent with the overall goals and strategic direction that the Entergy board
has set for Entergy Corporation. Annual incentive plans are commonly
used by companies in a variety of industry sectors to compensate their executive
officers.

The Named
Executive Officers participate in a performance-based cash bonus plan known as
the Executive Annual Incentive Plan or Executive Incentive Plan. The
Executive Incentive Plan operates on a calendar year basis. A
performance metric known as the Entergy Achievement Multiplier is used to
determine the payouts for each particular calendar year. The Entergy
Achievement Multiplier is used to determine the percentage of target annual plan
awards that will be paid each year to each Named Executive
Officer. In December 2008, the Personnel Committee selected the
performance measures for the Entergy Achievement Multiplier to be based in equal
part on earnings per share and operating cash flow for 2009
awards. The Committee selected these performance measures
because:

· 

earnings
 per share and operating cash flow have both a correlative and causal
 relationship to shareholder value
performance;

 

 

419

 

 

 

· 

earnings
 per share and operating cash flow targets are aligned with
 externally-communicated goals; and

· 

earnings
 per share and operating cash flow results are readily available in earning
 releases and SEC filings.

In
addition, these measures are commonly used by other companies, including the
industry peer group companies, as components of their incentive
programs. For example, approximately 56 percent of the industry peer
group companies use earnings per share as an incentive measure and 22 percent
use some type of cash flow measure. The Personnel Committee evaluates and sets
the performance measures used for the Executive Incentive Plan and the
Management Incentive Plan on an annual basis.

The Committee sets minimum and maximum
achievement levels under the Executive Incentive Plan. Payouts for
performance between minimum and target achievement levels and between target and
maximum levels are calculated using straight line interpolation. In
general, the Committee seeks to establish target achievement levels such that
the relative difficulty of achieving the target level is consistent from year to
year. Over the past five years ending with 2009, the average Entergy
Achievement Multiplier was 128% of target. 

In
December 2008, the Committee set the 2009 target awards for incentives to be
paid in 2010 under the Executive Incentive Plan. As a percentage of
base salary, the target awards for certain of Entergy named executive officers
were set as follows: J. Wayne Leonard, CEO of Entergy Corporation
(120%); Leo P. Denault, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(70%); and Richard J. Smith, President and Chief Operating Officer of Entergy
Corporation (70%). The Committee based its decision on the target
awards for Mr. Denault and Mr. Smith on the recommendation of Entergy’s Chief
Executive Officer.

In setting these target awards, the
Personnel Committee considered several factors, including:

· 

Analysis
 provided by the Committee's independent compensation consultant as to
 compensation practices at the industry peer group companies and the
 general market for companies the size of Entergy
 Corporation;

· 

Competitiveness
 of Entergy Corporation's compensation plans and their ability to attract
 and retain top executive talent;

· 

The
 individual performance of each Entergy named executive officer (other than
 the Chief Executive Officer of Entergy Corporation) as evaluated by the
 Chief Executive Officer of Entergy
Corporation;

· 

Target
 bonus levels in the market for comparable
 positions;

· 

The
 desire to ensure that a substantial portion of total compensation is
 performance-based;

· 

The
 relative importance, in any given year, of the short-term performance
 goals established pursuant to the Executive Incentive Plan;
 and

· 

The
 Committee's assessment of other elements of compensation provided to the
 Entergy named executive officers.

The
target awards for the other Named Executive Officers were set as
follows: E. Renae Conley, CEO - Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and CEO
- Entergy Louisiana (60%); Joseph F. Domino, CEO - Entergy Texas (50%); Hugh T.
McDonald, CEO - Entergy Arkansas (50%); Roderick K. West, CEO - Entergy New
Orleans (40%); Haley Fisackerly, CEO - Entergy Mississippi (40%) and Theodore H.
Bunting – Principal Accounting Officer – the Subsidiaries (60%).

The
target awards for the Named Executive Officers (other than Entergy named
executive officers) were set by their respective supervisors (subject to
ultimate approval of Entergy’s Chief Executive Officer) who allocated a
potential incentive pool established by the Personnel Committee among various of
their direct and indirect reports. In setting the target awards, the
supervisor took into account considerations similar to those used by the
Personnel Committee in setting the target awards for Entergy’s Named Executive
Officers.

 

 

420

 

 

The
Committee established a higher target percentage for Mr. Leonard compared to the
other Named Executive Officers to reflect the following factors:

· 

Mr.
 Leonard's leadership and contributions to Entergy Corporation's success as
 measured by, among other things, the overall performance of Entergy
 Corporation.

· 

Market
 practices that compensate chief executive officers at greater potential
 compensation levels with more "pay at risk" than other executive
 officers.

· 

The
 Personnel Committee's assessment of Mr. Leonard's strong performance based
 on the Board's annual performance evaluation, in which the Board reviews
 and assesses Mr. Leonard's performance based on: leadership,
 strategic planning, financial results, succession planning, communications
 with all of the stakeholders, external relations with the communities and
 industries in which Entergy Corporation operates and his relationship with
 the Board.

Target
awards are set based on an executive officer’s current position and executive
management level within the Entergy organization. Executive
management levels at Entergy range from Level 1 thorough Level 4. Mr.
Denault and Mr. Smith hold positions in Level 2 whereas Mr. Bunting and Ms.
Conley hold positions in Level 3 and Mr. Domino, Mr. Fisackerly, Mr. McDonald
and Mr. West hold positions in Level 4. Accordingly, their respective
incentive targets differ one from another based on the external market data
developed by the Committee’s independent compensation consultant and the other
factors noted above.

In
January 2009, the Committee determined the Entergy Achievement Multiplier
targets to be used for purposes of establishing annual bonuses for
2009. The targets established to measure management performance
against as reported results, excluding the impact of activities associated with
the planned separation of our non-utility nuclear business (the “Spin
Transaction”), were:

 
 

Minimum

Target

Maximum

Earnings
 Per Share ($)

6.30

7.00

7.70

Operating
 Cash Flow

 ($
 in Billions)

 

2.52

 

2.88

 

3.24

After
reviewing earnings per share and operating cash flow results against the
performance objectives in the above table and, in accordance with the terms of
the Executive Incentive Plan, adjusting for non-recurring charges for
impairments to the nuclear decommissioning trust, in January 2010, the Personnel
Committee certified the 2009 Entergy Achievement Multiplier at 115% of
target.

Under the terms of the Management
Effectiveness Program, the Entergy Achievement Multiplier is automatically
increased by 25 percent for the members of the Office of the Chief Executive
(including Mr. Leonard, Mr. Denault and Mr. Smith, but not the other Named
Executive Officers), subject to the Personnel Committee's discretion to adjust
the automatic multiplier downward or eliminate it altogether. In
accordance with Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, the multiplier
which Entergy refers to as the Management Effectiveness Factor is intended to
provide the Committee, through the exercise of negative discretion, a mechanism
to take into consideration the specific achievement factors relating to the
overall performance of Entergy Corporation. In January 2010, the Committee
exercised its negative discretion to eliminate the Management Effectiveness
Factor with respect to the 2009 incentive awards, reflecting the Personnel
Committee's determination that the Entergy Achievement Multiplier, in and of
itself without the Management Effectiveness Factor, was consistent with the
performance levels achieved by management.

The annual incentive awards for the
Named Executive Officers (other than Mr. Leonard, Mr. Denault and Mr. Smith) are
awarded from an incentive pool approved by the Committee. From this
pool, each named executive officer’s supervisor determines the annual incentive
payment based on the Entergy Achievement Multiplier. The supervisor
has the discretion to increase or decrease the multiple used to determine an
incentive award based on individual and business unit
performance. The incentive awards are subject to the ultimate
approval of Entergy’s Chief Executive Officer.

The following table shows the Executive
and Management Incentive Plans payments as a percentage of base salary for 2009
as well as the incentive awards for each Named Executive Officer:

 

 

421

 

 

Named
 Exeutive Officer

Target

Percentage
 Base Salary

2009
 Annual Incentive Award

J.
 Wayne Leonard

120%

138%

$1,782,270

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 70%

 
 81%

 $ 507,150

Richard
 J. Smith

 
 70%

 
 81%

 $ 519,225

E.
 Renae Conley

 
 60%

 
 75%

 $ 307,000

Hugh
 T. McDonald

 
 50%

 
 40%

 $ 128,066

Joseph
 F. Domino

 
 50%

 
 35%

 $ 111,373

Roderick
 K. West

 
 40%

 
 50%

$ 158,000

Haley
 Fisackerly

 
 40%

 
 50%

$ 138,000

Theodore
 H. Bunting

 
 60%

 
 96%

$ 335,000

Long-Term
Compensation

Entergy
Corporation's long-term incentive programs are intended to reward the Named
Executive Officers for achievement of shareholder value creation over the
long-term. In its long-term incentive programs, Entergy Corporation
primarily uses a mix of performance units and stock options in order to
accomplish different objectives. Performance units reward the Named
Executive Officers on the basis of total shareholder return, which is a measure
of stock appreciation and dividend payments relative to the industry peer group
companies. Stock options provide a direct incentive for increasing
the price of Entergy Corporation common stock. In addition, Entergy
Corporation occasionally awards restricted units for retention purposes or to
offset forfeited compensation in order to attract officers and managers from
other companies.

Each of
the performance units, stock options and restricted units granted to the Named
Executive Officers in 2009 were awarded under the 2007 Equity Ownership and Long
Term Cash Incentive Plan of Entergy Corporation, which is referred to as the
2007 Equity Ownership Plan.

· 

Performance
 Unit Program

Entergy
Corporation issues performance unit awards to the Named Executive Officers under
its Performance Unit Program. Each Performance Unit equals the cash
value of one share of Entergy Corporation common stock at the end of the
three-year performance cycle. Each unit also earns the cash
equivalent of the dividends paid during the performance cycle. The
Performance Unit Program is structured to reward Named Executive Officers only
if performance goals set by the Personnel Committee are met. The
Personnel Committee has no discretion to make awards if minimum performance
goals are not achieved. The Performance Unit Program provides a minimum, target
and maximum achievement level. Performance is measured by assessing
Entergy Corporation's total shareholder return relative to the total shareholder
return of industry peer group companies. The Personnel Committee
chose total shareholder return as a measure of performance because it assesses
Entergy Corporation's creation of shareholder value relative to other electric
utilities over the performance cycle. Minimum, target and maximum
performance levels are determined by reference to the quartile ranking of
Entergy Corporation's total shareholder return against the total shareholder
return of industry peer group companies.

For the
2010-2012 performance cycle, the Personnel Committee identified the Philadelphia
Utility Index as the industry peer group for total shareholder return
performance because the companies represented in this index more closely
approximate Entergy Corporation in terms of size. The companies included in the
Philadelphia Utility Index are provided above in the Compensation Discussion and
Analysis under "The Starting Point - Proxy Analysis."

Subject
to achievement of the Performance Unit Program performance levels, the Personnel
Committee established target amounts of 22,300 performance units for
Mr. Leonard; and 5,300 performance units for each of Mr. Denault and Mr.
Smith for the 2010-2012 performance cycle. The target amounts for the
other Named Executive Officers are as follows: 2,200 performance
units for Ms. Conley and Mr. Bunting; and 1,000 performance units for each
of Mr. Domino, Mr. McDonald, Mr. West, and Mr. Fisackerly. The range
of payouts under the program is shown below.

 

 

422

 

 

Quartiles:

4

3

2

1

Performance
 Levels:

Zero

Minimum

Target

Maximum

Total
 Shareholder Return Ranges:

Below
 25
th

 percentile

25
th

 to 50
th

 percentiles

50
th

 to 75
th

 percentiles

75
th

 percentile and above

Payouts:

No
 Payout

Interpolate
 between Minimum and Target

(10%
 to 100% of Target)

Interpolate
 between Target and Maximum (100% to 250% of Target)

Maximum
 Payout (250% of Target)

 

The
Personnel Committee sets payout opportunities for the Performance Unit Program
each performance cycle. In determining payout opportunities, the
Committee considers several factors, including:

· 

The
 advice of the Committee's independent compensation consultant regarding
 compensation practices at the industry peer group
 companies;

· 

Competitiveness
 of the Entergy Corporation's compensation plans and their ability to
 attract and retain top executive
talent;

· 

Target
 long-term compensation values in the market for similar
 jobs;

· 

The
 desire to ensure, as described above, that a substantial portion of total
 compensation is performance-based;

· 

The
 relative importance, in any given year, of the long-term performance goals
 established pursuant to the Performance Unit Program;
 and

· 

The
 Committee's assessment of other elements of compensation provided to the
 Named Executive Officer.

 
 

For
 the 2007-2009 performance cycle, the target amounts established in January
 2007 were:

· 

23,800
 performance units for Mr. Leonard;

· 

4,500
 performance units for Mr. Denault and Mr.
Smith;

· 

2,100
 performance units for Ms. Conley and Mr. Bunting;
 and

· 

1,000
 performance units for each of Mr. Domino, Mr. McDonald and Mr.
 Fisackerly.

Participants
could earn performance units consistent with the range of payouts as described
above for the 2010-2012 performance cycle. The Committee established a higher
target amount for Mr. Leonard compared to the other Named Executive Officers
based on the following factors:

· 

Mr.
 Leonard's leadership and contributions to Entergy Corporation's success as
 measured by, among other things, the overall performance of Entergy
 Corporation.

· 

Market
 practices that compensate chief executive officers at greater potential
 compensation levels with more "pay at risk" than other named executive
 officers.

In
January 2010, the Committee assessed Entergy Corporation's total shareholder
return for the 2007-2009 performance period and determined the actual number of
performance units to be paid to Performance Unit Program participants for the
2007-2009 performance cycle. Performance was measured in a manner
similar to that described above for the 2010-2012 cycle, on the basis of
relative total shareholder return.

For
purposes of determining Entergy Corporation's relative performance for the
2007-2009 performance cycle period, the Committee used the Philadelphia Utility
Index as the peer group. Based on market data and the recommendation
of management, the Committee compared Entergy Corporation's total shareholder
return against the total shareholder return of the companies that comprised the
Philadelphia Utility Index.

Based on
a comparison of Entergy Corporation's performance relative to the Philadelphia
Utility Index as described above, the Committee concluded that Entergy
Corporation’s performance, for the 2007-2009 performance cycle, ranked in the
third quartile. This resulted in a payment of 57% of
target. Each performance unit was then automatically converted into
cash at the rate of $81.84 per unit, the closing price of Entergy Corporation
common stock on the last trading day of the performance cycle (December 31,
2009), plus dividend

 

 

 

423

 

 

equivalents
accrued over the three-year performance cycle. See the 2009 Option
Exercises and Stock Vested table for the amount paid to each of the Named
Executive Officers for the 2007-2009 performance cycle.

· 

Stock
 Options

The
Personnel Committee and, in the case of the Named Executive Officers (other than
Mr. Leonard, Mr. Denault and Mr. Smith), Entergy’s Chief Executive Officer and
the Named Executive Officer’s supervisor consider several factors in determining
the amount of stock options it will grant under Entergy’s 2007 Equity Ownership
Plan to the Named Executive Officers, including:

· 

Individual
 performance;

· 

Prevailing
 market practice in stock option
grants;

· 

The
 targeted long-term value created by the use of stock
 options;

· 

The
 number of participants eligible for stock options, and the resulting "burn
 rate" (i.e., the number of stock options authorized divided by the total
 number of shares outstanding) to assess the potential dilutive effect;
 and

· 

The
 Committee's assessment of other elements of compensation provided to the
 Named Executive Officer

For stock
option awards to the Named Executive Officers (other than Mr. Leonard), the
Committee's assessment of individual performance of each Named Executive Officer
in consultation with Entergy Corporation's Chief Executive Officer is the most
important factor in determining the number of options awarded.

The
following table sets forth the number of stock options granted to each Named
Executive Officer in 2009. The exercise price for each option was
$77.53, which was the closing fair market value of Entergy Corporation common
stock on the date of grant.

Named
 Executive Officer

Stock Options

J.
 Wayne Leonard

125,000

Leo
 P. Denault

 45,000

Richard
 J. Smith

 35,000

E.
 Renae Conley

 12,500

Hugh
 T. McDonald

 
 4,500

Haley
 Fisackerly

 
 3,800

Joseph
 F. Domino

 
 4,500

Roderick
 K. West

 
 5,000

Theodore
 H. Bunting 

 12,000

The
option grants awarded to the Named Executive Officers (other than Mr. Leonard)
ranged in number between 3,800 and 45,000 shares. In the case of Mr.
Leonard, who received 125,000 stock options, the Committee took special note of
his performance as Entergy Corporation's Chief Executive
Officer. Among other things, the Committee noted that the total
shareholder return of Entergy Corporation measured over the nine-year period
between Mr. Leonard's appointment as CEO of Entergy Corporation in January 1999
and the January 29, 2009 grant date exceeded all of the industry peer group
companies as well as all other U.S. utility companies.

For
additional information regarding stock options awarded in 2009 to each of the
Named Executive Officers, see the 2009 Grants of Plan-Based Awards
table.

Under the
2007 Equity Ownership Plan and Entergy’s predecessor equity plans, all options
must have an exercise price equal to the closing fair market value of Entergy
Corporation common stock on the date of grant. In 2008, Entergy
Corporation implemented guidelines that require an executive officer to achieve
and maintain a level of Entergy Corporation stock ownership equal to a multiple
of his or her salary. Until an executive officer achieves the
multiple ownership position of Entergy Corporation common stock,
the

 

 

 

424

 

 

executive
officer (including a Named Executive Officer) upon exercising any stock option
granted on or after January 1, 2003, must retain at least 75% of the after-tax
net profit from such stock option exercise in the form of Entergy Corporation
common stock.

Entergy
Corporation has not adopted a formal policy regarding the granting of options at
times when it is in possession of material non-public
information. However, Entergy Corporation generally grants options to
Named Executive Officers only during the month of January in connection with its
annual executive compensation decisions. On occasion, it may grant
options to newly hired employees or existing employees for retention or other
limited purposes.

· 

Restricted
 Units

Restricted
units granted under the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan represent phantom shares of
Entergy Corporation common stock (i.e., non-stock interests that have an
economic value equivalent to a share of Entergy Corporation common
stock). Entergy Corporation occasionally grants restricted units for
retention purposes, to offset forfeited compensation from a previous employer or
for other limited purposes. If all conditions of the grant are
satisfied, restrictions on the restricted units lift at the end of the
restricted period, and a cash equivalent value of the restricted units is
paid. The settlement price is equal to the number of restricted units
multiplied by the closing price of Entergy Corporation common stock on the date
restrictions lift. Restricted units are not entitled to dividends or
voting rights. Restricted units are generally time-based awards for
which restrictions lift, subject to continued employment, over a two- to
five-year period.

In
December 2009, the Committee granted Mr. Leonard, Entergy’s Chief Executive
Officer, 100,000 restricted units. The Committee granted Mr. Leonard
these restricted units in recognition of the importance of his continued
exemplary leadership as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and to encourage
the retention of his leadership in light of the numerous strategic challenges
facing the Company, including the challenges associated with the completion of
the Spin Transaction. The Committee also took into account the
competitive market for chief executive officers. In determining the
size of the grant, the Committee consulted its independent consultant to confirm
that the grant was consistent with market practices. The Committee
also noted, based on the advice of its independent consultant, that such grants
are a commonly used market technique for retention purposes.

The
restricted units will vest in two equal installments of 50,000 units each on
December 3, 2011 and December 3, 2012. On each vesting date, Entergy
will pay to Mr. Leonard, subject to payment of withholding taxes, a cash amount
equal to the closing price of a share of Entergy’s common stock on that
date. Under certain conditions, including a termination of employment
without cause, death or disability, Mr. Leonard’s restricted stock units may
vest on an earlier date.

No other
Named Executive Officers received restricted units during 2009.

 
 

•

2009
 Significant Achievements

In
assessing individual and management performance (with respect to the overall
compensation of the Named Executive Officers), the Committee noted the following
significant achievements:

· 

Achieved
 the safest year in Entergy’s
history;

· 

Achieved
 the highest generation ever from our entire nuclear
 fleet;

· 

Reported
 the highest earnings in our
history;

· 

Named
 to “2010 All-America Executive Team” according to rankings compiled by the
 prestigious Institutional Investors magazine; our Chief Executive Officer
 and Chief Financial Officer ranked as the top CEO and CFOs in the power
 industry; Entergy was also ranked as the top electric utility in the
 country and among the top nine companies in the nation, making it one of
 the “Most Honored Companies;”

 

 

425

 

 

 

· 

Successfully
 completed Entergy New Orleans storm cost audits for Hurricanes Katrina,
 Rita, Gustav and Ike and reached agreement with the Louisiana Public
 Service Commission staff on recoverable Hurricane Gustav and Ike storm
 costs;

· 

Issued
 securitized debt for Entergy Texas 2008 storm
 costs;

· 

Implemented
 storm reserve accounting at Entergy
Arkansas;

· 

Settled
 rate actions at Entergy Mississippi (annual formula rate plan), Entergy
 Texas (rate case) and renewed Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy
 Louisiana formula rate plans for three
years;

· 

Completed
 the Board approved and previously announced $1.5 billion and $0.5 billion
 stock buyback programs;

· 

Named
 for the eighth consecutive year to the Dow Jones Sustainability World
 Index, an index that tracks the performance of companies that lead their
 field in terms of corporate sustainability on a global
 basis;

· 

Recognized
 for corporate governance practices where in 2009, we received a 100
 percent rating for corporate governance in the RiskMetrics Group’s
 (formerly Institutional Shareholder Services) utility rankings;
 and

· 

Received
 multiple awards and recognition, including 11
th

 EEI Emergency Assistance Recovery Award and Platts Global Energy Awards
 recognizing Entergy New Orleans gas rebuild project as the Global
 Infrastructure Project of the Year.

Benefits, Perquisites,
Agreements and Post-Termination Plans

· 

Pension
 Plan, Pension Equalization Plan and System Executive Retirement
 Plan

The Named Executive Officers
participate in an Entergy Corporation-sponsored pension plan that covers a broad
group of employees. This pension plan is a funded, tax-qualified,
noncontributory defined benefit pension plan. Benefits under the
pension plan are based upon an employee's years of service with an Entergy
system company and the employee's average monthly rate of “Eligible Earnings”
(which generally includes the employee’s salary and eligible incentive awards,
other than incentive awards paid under the Executive Incentive Plan) for the
highest consecutive 60 months during the 120 months preceding termination of
employment. Benefits under the tax-qualified plan are payable monthly
after separation from an Entergy system company. The amount of annual
earnings that may be considered in calculating benefits under the tax-qualified
pension plan is limited by federal law.

Benefits
under the tax-qualified pension plan in which the Named Executive Officer
participates are calculated as an annuity equal to 1.5% of a participant's
Eligible Earnings multiplied by years of service. Years of service
under the pension plan formula cannot exceed 40. Contributions to the
pension plan are made entirely by the employer and are paid into a trust fund
from which the benefits of participants will be paid.

Entergy
Corporation sponsors a Pension Equalization Plan, which is available to a select
group of management and highly compensated employees, including the Named
Executive Officers (other than our Chief Executive Officer). The
Pension Equalization Plan is a non-qualified unfunded supplemental retirement
plan that provides for the payment to participants from an Entergy System
employer's general assets a single lump sum cash distribution upon separation
from service generally equal to the actuarial present value of the difference
between the amount that would have been payable as an annuity under the
tax-qualified pension plan, but for Internal Revenue Code limitations on pension
benefits and earnings that may be considered in calculating tax-qualified
pension benefits, and the amount actually payable as an annuity under the
tax-qualified pension plan. The Pension Equalization Plan also takes
into account as “Eligible Earnings” any incentive awards paid under the
Executive Incentive Plan.

Entergy
Corporation also sponsors a System Executive Retirement Plan, which is available
to the Company's approximately 60 officers, including the Named Executive
Officers (other than Entergy’s Chief Executive
Officer). Participation in the System Executive Retirement Plan
requires individual approval by the plan administrator. An employee
participating in both the System Executive Retirement Plan and the Pension
Equalization Plan is eligible to receive only the greater of the two single-sum
benefits computed in accordance with the terms and conditions of each
plan.

 

 

426

 

 

Like the
Pension Equalization Plan, the System Executive Retirement Plan is designed to
provide for the payment to participants from an Entergy System employer’s
general assets a single-sum cash distribution upon separation from
service. The single-sum benefit is generally equal to the actuarial
present value of a specified percentage of the participant’s “Final Average
Monthly Compensation” (which is generally 1/36th of the sum of the participant's
annual rate of base salary and Executive Incentive Plan award for the 3 highest
years during the last 10 years preceding termination of employment), after first
being reduced by the value of the participant’s tax-qualified Pension Plan
benefit and typically any prior employer pension benefit available to the
participant. While the System Executive Retirement Plan has a
replacement schedule from one year of service to the maximum of 30 years of
service, the table below offers a sample ratio at 20 and 30 years of
service.

 

Years
 of Service

Executives
 at Management Level 1

Executives
 at Management Level 3

&
 above - includes the remaining 4

Named
 Executive Officers

Executives
 at Management Level 4

20
 years

55.0%

50.0%

45.0%

30
 years

65.0%

60.0%

55.0%

Mr.
Leonard's retention agreement (as further discussed below) provides that, in
lieu of his participation in the Pension Equalization Plan and the System
Executive Retirement Plan, upon the termination of his employment (unless such
termination is for Cause, as defined in the agreement), he will be entitled to
receive a benefit equal to 60% of his Final Average Compensation (as described
in the description of the System Executive Retirement Plan above) calculated as
a single life annuity and payable as an actuarial equivalent lump
sum. This benefit will be reduced by other benefits to which he is
entitled from any Entergy Corporation-sponsored pension plan or prior employer
pension plans. The terms of Mr. Leonard's Supplemental Retirement Benefit were
negotiated at the time of his employment with Entergy Corporation and were
designed to, among other things, offset the loss of benefits resulting from Mr.
Leonard's resignation from his prior employer. At the time that
Entergy Corporation recruited Mr. Leonard, he had accumulated twenty-five years
of seniority with his prior employer and had served as an executive officer for
that employer for over ten years and in an officer-level capacity for over
fifteen years.

The
Committee believes that the Pension Plan, Pension Equalization Plan and System
Executive Retirement Plan are an important part of the Named Executive Officers'
compensation program. These plans are important in the recruitment of
top talent in the competitive market, as these types of supplemental plans are
typically found in companies of similar size to Entergy
Corporation. These plans serve a critically important role in the
retention of senior executives, as benefits from these plans generally increase
for each year that these executives remain employed by an Entergy system
company. The plans thereby encourage the most senior executives to remain
employed within the Entergy system and continue their work on behalf of Entergy
Corporation's shareholders.

The
Entergy System company employer of Ms. Conley, Mr. Smith and Mr. Denault has
agreed to provide service credit to each of them under either the Pension
Equalization Plan or the System Executive Retirement Plan. Entergy System
company employers typically offer these service credit benefits as one element
of the total compensation package offered to new mid-level or senior executives
that are recruited from other companies. By offering these executives
"credited service," Entergy Corporation is able to compete more effectively to
hire these employees by mitigating the potential loss of their pension benefits
resulting from accepting employment within the Entergy system.

See the
2009 Pension Benefits table for additional information regarding the operation
of the plans described under this caption.

 

427

 

· 

Savings
 Plan

The Named
Executive Officers are eligible to participate in an Entergy
Corporation-sponsored Savings Plan that covers a broad group of
employees. This is a tax-qualified retirement savings plan, wherein
total combined before-tax and after-tax contributions may not exceed 30 percent
of a participant's base salary up to certain contribution limits defined by law.
In addition, under the Savings Plan, the participant's employer matches an
amount equal to seventy cents for each dollar contributed by participating
employees, including the Named Executive Officers, on the first six percent of
their Earnings (as defined in the Savings Plan) for that pay
period. Entergy Corporation maintains the Savings Plan for employees
of participating Entergy System companies, including the Named Executive
Officers, because it wishes to encourage employees to save some percentage of
their cash compensation for their eventual retirement. The Savings
Plan permits employees to make such savings in a manner that is relatively tax
efficient. This type of savings plan is also a critical element in
attracting and retaining talent in a competitive market.

· 

Executive
 Deferred Compensation

The Named
Executive Officers are eligible to defer up to 100% of the following into the
Entergy Corporation-sponsored Executive Deferred Compensation Plan:

· 

Base
 Salary

· 

Executive
 Incentive Plan Bonus

· 

Performance
 Unit Program Awards

The Named
Executive Officers also are eligible to defer up to 100% of the following
payments into the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan:

 
 

· 

Executive
 Incentive Plan Bonus

· 

Performance
 Unit Program Awards

Amounts
deferred under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and 2007 Equity
Ownership Plan are subject to limitations prescribed by law and the respective
plan.

Additionally, Mr. Leonard currently has
deferred account balances under a frozen Defined Contribution Restoration
Plan. These amounts are deemed invested in the options available
under this Defined Contribution Plan. The Defined Contribution Plan,
until it was frozen in 2005, credited eligible employees deferral accounts with
employer contributions to the extent contributions were limited under the
qualified savings plan in which the employee participated were subject to
limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code.

All
deferral amounts represent an unfunded liability of the
employer. Amounts deferred into the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan are
deemed invested in phantom shares of Entergy Corporation common
stock. Amounts deferred under the Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan are deemed invested in one or more of the investment options (generally
mutual funds) offered under the Savings Plan. Within the Executive
Deferred Compensation Plan, the Named Executive Officer may move funds from one
deemed investment option to another.

The
employer does not "match" amounts that are deferred by employees pursuant to the
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan or 2007 Equity Ownership
Plan. With the exception of allowing for the deferral of federal and
state taxes, Entergy Corporation provides no additional benefit to the Named
Executive Officer for deferring any of the above payments. Any
increase in value of the deferred amounts results solely from the increase in
value of the investment options selected (phantom Entergy Corporation common
stock or mutual funds available under the Savings Plan). Deferred amounts are
credited with earnings or losses based on the rate of return of deemed
investment options or Entergy Corporation common stock, as selected by the
participants.

Entergy
Corporation provides this benefit because the Committee believes it is standard
market practice to permit officers to defer the cash portion of their
compensation. The Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and 2007
Equity Ownership Plan permit them to do this while also receiving gains or
losses on deemed investments, as described
above. Entergy

 

 

428

 

 

Corporation
believes that providing this benefit is important as a retention and recruitment
tool as many, if not all, of the companies with which Entergy Corporation and
the Subsidiaries compete for executive talent provide a similar arrangement to
their senior employees.

· 

Health
 & Welfare Benefits

The Named
Executive Officers are eligible to participate in various health and welfare
benefits available to a broad group of employees. These benefits
include medical, dental and vision coverage, life and accidental death &
dismemberment insurance and long-term disability
insurance. Eligibility, coverage levels, potential employee
contributions and other plan design features are the same for the Named
Executive Officers as for the broad employee population.

· 

Executive Long
-
Term Disability
 Program

All
executive officers, including the Named Executive Officers, are eligible to
participate in the Entergy Corporation-sponsored Executive Long-Term Disability
program. Individuals who elect to participate in this plan and become
disabled under the terms of the plan are eligible for 65 percent of the
difference between their base salary and $275,000 (i.e. the base salary that
produces the maximum $15,000 monthly disability payment under the Entergy
Corporation's general long-term disability plan).

· 

Perquisites

Entergy
Corporation provides the Named Executive Officers with certain perquisites and
other personal benefits as part of providing a competitive executive
compensation program and for employee retention. However, perquisites
are not a material part of the compensation program for the Named Executive
Officers. In 2009, Entergy Corporation offered to the Named Executive
Officers limited benefits such as the following: corporate aircraft usage,
personal financial counseling, club dues and annual physical exams (which are
mandatory for Entergy’s named executive officers). For security and
business reasons, Entergy Corporation permits its Chief Executive Officer to use
its corporate aircraft at Entergy Corporation expense for personal
use. The other Named Executive Officers may use corporate aircraft
for personal travel subject to the approval of Entergy Corporation's Chief
Executive Officer. The Personnel Committee reviews all perquisites, including
the use of corporate aircraft, on an annual basis. For additional
information regarding perquisites, see the "All Other Compensation" column in
the Summary Compensation table.

· 

Retention
 Agreements and other Compensation
Arrangements

The
Committee believes that retention and transitional compensation arrangements are
an important part of overall compensation. The Committee believes that these
arrangements help to secure the continued employment and dedication of the Named
Executive Officers, notwithstanding any concern that they might have at the time
of a change in control regarding their own continued employment. In addition,
the Committee believes that these arrangements are important as recruitment and
retention devices, as all or nearly all of the companies with which Entergy
Corporation and the Subsidiaries compete for executive talent have similar
arrangements in place for their senior employees.

To
achieve these objectives, Entergy Corporation has established a System Executive
Continuity Plan under which each of the Named Executive Officers is entitled to
receive "change in control" payments and benefits if such officer's employment
is involuntarily terminated for similar qualifying events or
circumstances. Based on the market data provided by its independent
compensation consultant, the Committee believes the benefits and payment levels
under the System Executive Continuity Plan are consistent with market
practices.

In
certain cases, the Committee may approve the execution of a retention agreement
with an individual executive officer. These decisions are made on a
case by case basis to reflect specific retention needs or other factors,
including market practice. If a retention agreement is entered into
with an individual officer, the Committee considers the economic value
associated with that agreement in making overall compensation decisions for the
affected officer. Entergy Corporation has voluntarily adopted a
policy that any severance arrangements providing benefits in excess of 2.99
times an officer's annual base salary and bonus must be approved by its
shareholders.

 

 

429

 

 

Severance
payments under the System Executive Retirement Plan are based on the sum of an
executive officer’s base salary plus awards granted under the Executive
Incentive Plan. Revenue Ruling 2008-13 provides that compensation
will not be treated as performance-based under Section 162(m) if it is payable
regardless of actual performance in the event of termination by a company
without “cause,” by the executive with “good reason” or an executive’s
retirement. Effective January 1, 2010, Entergy amended the System
Executive Continuity Plan to allow incentive payments under the Executive
Incentive Plan to continue to be considered performance-based under Section
162(m). With this amendment, severance payments will be calculated
based on the sum of (a) base salary plus (b) the higher of: (i) the annual
incentive award actually awarded to the executive office under the Executive
Incentive Plan for the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in
which the termination of employment occurs or (ii) the average Executive
Incentive Plan award for the two fiscal years immediately preceding the fiscal
year in which the termination of employment occurs.

At
present, Entergy Corporation has entered into a retention agreement with two of
the Named Executive Officers, Mr. Leonard and Mr. Denault. In
general, these retention agreements provide for "change in control" payments and
other benefits in lieu of to those provided under the System Executive
Continuity Plan. The retention agreements entered into with Mr.
Leonard and Mr. Denault reflect, among other things, the competition for chief
executive officer and chief financial officer talent in the market place and the
Committee's assessment of the critical role of these officers in executing
Entergy Corporation's long-term financial and other strategic
objectives. Effective January 1, 2010, Entergy made amendments
similar to those made to the System Executive Continuity Plan to Mr. Denault’s
and Mr. Leonard’s retention agreements to allow incentive payments under the
Executive Incentive Plan to continue to be considered performance based under
Section 162(m). Based on market data provided by its independent
compensation consultant, the Personnel Committee believes the benefits and
payment levels under these retention agreements are consistent with market
practices.

On
December 18, 2009, Entergy entered into a retention agreement with Richard J.
Smith, its President and Chief Operating Officer. This agreement
provides for Mr. Smith’s continued employment and the payment of certain
compensation to Mr. Smith in the event the planned Spin Transaction does not
occur. The agreement provides that in such event, Mr. Smith will
continue to be employed by an Entergy System Company at a management level and
with a salary no less than Mr. Smith’s current management level and salary and
that his duties will include, among other things, coordinating the orderly
unwinding of the preparations for the contemplated Spin
Transaction. In addition, the agreement provides that Mr.
Smith will be entitled to receive a lump sum cash payment equal to 1.5 times his
base salary as of the date of separation from Entergy if either (i) he
remains continuously employed in such capacity for 24 months after any public
announcement that the Spin Transaction will not occur or (ii) he remains
continuously employed in such capacity for at least six (6) months after any
such public announcement and thereafter retires with the consent of Entergy’s
Chief Executive Officer prior to reaching such 24 months of service.
Entergy entered into this agreement with Mr. Smith in light of Mr. Smith’s
leadership role in the preparations for the Spin Transaction and the critical
role that Mr. Smith would have in dismantling these preparations should the Spin
Transaction not occur. In determining the type and size of the amount
of payment under this agreement, the Personnel Committee consulted with its
independent compensation consultant to confirm that the economic value of this
arrangement was consistent with market practices.

 

For
additional information regarding the System Executive Continuity Plan and Mr.
Leonard’s and Mr. Denault’s retention agreement described above, see "Potential
Payments upon Termination or Change in Control."

Compensation Program
Administration

Role
of Personnel Committee

The
Personnel Committee has overall responsibility for approving the compensation
program for the Named Executive Officers and makes all final compensation
decisions regarding Entergy Corporation's named executive
officers. The Personnel Committee is responsible for, among its other
duties, the following actions related to Entergy Corporation's named executive
officers:

 

430

 

 

· 

developing
 and implementing compensation policies and programs for the executive
 officers, including any employment agreement with an executive
 officer;

· 

evaluating
 the performance of Entergy Corporation's Chairman and Chief Executive
 Officer; and

· 

reporting,
 at least annually, to the Board on succession planning, including
 succession planning for Entergy Corporation's Chief Executive
 Officer.

The
Personnel Committee has authorized, in limited circumstances, the delegation of
its authority to grant stock options under Entergy plans to Entergy
Corporation's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Senior Vice President of
Human Resources and Administration subject to the following
conditions:

· 

No
 grant may exceed an aggregate value of $1 million per
 grantee;

· 

All
 awards must be issued in accordance with the terms of Entergy
 Corporation's plans, including the requirement that all options be issued
 for an exercise price not less than the fair market value of the stock on
 date the option is granted;

· 

No
 awards may be granted to any employee of Entergy Corporation subject to
 Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
 and

· 

The
 Personnel Committee must be advised on at least a quarterly basis of the
 grants made under the exercise of this delegated
 authority.

Certain
aspects of the compensation of officers who are not Entergy named executive
officers, Mr. Bunting, Ms. Conley, Mr. Domino, Mr. Fisackerly and Mr. McDonald
are not directly determined by the Personnel Committee. While the
Committee does determine the number of performance units to be granted to these
Named Executive Officers, the Committee does not determine the actual annual
incentive target for these Named Executive Officers. Rather, the
Committee establishes an overall available annual incentive pool for these
officers and establishes the specific goal targets and ranges, the officers’
respective supervisor determines the actual incentive payment, in each case,
subject to the ultimate approval of Entergy’s Chief Executive Officer. Further,
Entergy’s Chief Executive Officer and the officer’s supervisor have ultimate
responsibility for adjusting the salary of these Named Executive Officers as
deemed appropriate. The officer’s supervisor and Entergy’s Chief
Executive Officer also determine how many stock option awards are to be
allocated to the Named Executive Officers from an available pool established by
the Personnel Committee for similarly situated officers, though the Personnel
Committee ultimately approves the options granted.

Role
of Chief Executive Officer

The
Personnel Committee solicits recommendations from Mr. Leonard, Entergy
Corporation's Chief Executive Officer, with respect to compensation decisions
for Mr. Denault and Mr. Smith. Mr. Leonard's role is limited
to:

· 

providing
 the Committee with an assessment of the performance of Mr. Denault and Mr.
 Smith; and

· 

recommending
 base salary, annual merit increases, stock option and annual cash
 incentive plan compensation amounts for these
 officers.

In
addition, the Committee may request that Mr. Leonard provide management feedback
and recommendations on changes in the design of compensation programs, such as
special retention plans or changes in structure of bonus
programs. Mr. Leonard does not play any role with respect to any
matter affecting his own compensation nor does he have any role determining or
recommending the amount, or form, of director compensation. 

As noted
above, under “Role of Personnel Committee,” Mr. Leonard also plays a role in
determining the Subsidiary Named Executive Officers’ base salary, their annual
incentive target and the number of stock options they receive.

Mr.
Leonard may attend committee meetings of the Personnel Committee only at the
invitation of the chair of the Personnel Committee and cannot call a meeting of
the Committee. However, he is not in attendance at any meeting when
the Committee determines and approves the compensation to be paid to the Named
Executive Officers. Since he is not a member of the Committee, he has
no vote on matters submitted to the Committee. During 2009, Mr.
Leonard attended five meetings of the Personnel Committee.

 

 

431

 

 

In 2009,
the Committee's compensation consultant met at the request of the Personnel
Committee with Mr. Leonard to review market trends in executive and management
compensation and to discuss Entergy Corporation and its Subsidiaries’ overall
compensation philosophy, such as the optimum balance between base and incentive
compensation. In addition, the Committee requested that its
independent compensation consultant interview Mr. Leonard to obtain management
feedback on the impact of compensation programs on employees and information
regarding the roles and responsibilities of the Named Executive
Officers.

Role
of the Compensation Consultant

In
discharging its duties, the Personnel Committee has retained Towers Watson,
formerly Towers Perrin, as its independent compensation consultant to assist it
in, among other things, evaluating different compensation programs and
developing market data to assess the compensation programs. Under the terms of
its engagement, Towers Watson reports directly to the Personnel Committee, which
has the right to retain or dismiss the consultant without the consent of Entergy
Corporation's management. In addition, the consent of the Personnel
Committee must be obtained before Towers Watson can accept any material
engagements from Entergy Corporation’s management.

In
considering the appointment of Towers Watson, the Personnel Committee took into
account that Towers Watson provides from time to time general consulting
services to Entergy Corporation's management with respect to non-executive
compensation matters. In this connection the Committee reviewed the
fees and compensation received by Towers Watson for these services over a
historical period. After considering the nature and scope of these
engagements and the fee arrangements involved, the Personnel Committee
determined that the engagements did not create a conflict of
interest. The Committee reviews on an ongoing basis the fees and
compensation received by Towers Watson for non-executive compensation matters on
an annual basis to monitor its independence. In 2009, Entergy incurred in the
aggregate fees of $234,668 from Towers Watson for determining or recommending
the amount or form of executive and director compensation and $1,363,128 for
other services, $1,141,054 of which was for services related to the Spin
Transaction.

Tax and Accounting
Considerations

Section
162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code limits the tax deductibility by a publicly
held corporation of compensation in excess of $1 million paid to a Chief
Executive Officer or any of its other Named Executive Officers (other than the
chief financial officer), unless that compensation is "performance-based
compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m). The Personnel Committee
considers deductibility under Section 162(m) as it structures the compensation
packages that are provided to Entergy’s Named Executive Officers. However, the
Personnel Committee and the Board believe that it is in the best interest of
Entergy Corporation that the Personnel Committee retains the flexibility and
discretion to make compensation awards, whether or not deductible. This
flexibility is necessary to foster achievement of performance goals established
by the Personnel Committee as well as other corporate goals that the Committee
deems important to Entergy Corporation and the Subsidiaries' success, such as
encouraging employee retention and rewarding achievement.

Likewise,
the Personnel Committee considers financial accounting consequences as it
structures the compensation packages that are provided to Entergy’s Named
Executive Officers. However, the Personnel Committee and the Entergy
Board of Directors believe that it is in the best interest of Entergy that the
Personnel Committee retains the flexibility and discretion to make compensation
awards regardless of their financial accounting consequences.

 

 

432

 

 

PERSONNEL
COMMITTEE REPORT

The "Personnel Committee Report"
included in the Entergy Corporation Proxy Statement is incorporated by
reference, but will not be deemed to be "filed" in this Annual Report on Form
10-K. None of the Subsidiaries has a compensation committee, or other
board committee performing equivalent functions. The board of
directors of each of the Subsidiaries is comprised of individuals who are
officers or employees of Entergy Corporation or one of the
Subsidiaries. These boards do not make determinations regarding the
compensation paid to executive officers of the Subsidiaries.

EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION TABLES

2009
Summary Compensation Table

The following table summarizes the
total compensation paid or earned by each of the Named Executive Officers for
the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. For
information on the principal positions held by each of the Named Executive
Officers, see Item 10, "Directors and Executive Officers of the
Registrants." The compensation set forth in the table represents the
aggregate compensation paid by all Entergy System companies. None of
the Entergy System companies has entered into any employment agreements with any
of the Named Executive Officers (other than the retention agreements described
in "Potential Payments upon Termination or Change in Control"). For
additional information regarding the material terms of the awards reported in
the following tables, including a general description of the formula or criteria
to be applied in determining the amounts payable, see "Compensation Discussion
and Analysis."

(a)

 
 

(b)

 
 

(c)

 
 

(d)

 
 

(e)

 
 

(f)

 
 

(g)

 
 

(h)

 
 

(i)

 
 

(j)

 

 

 

 

 

Name
 and

Principal
 Position

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Salary

(1)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bonus

(2)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Stock
 Awards

 
(3)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Option

Awards

 
(4)

 
 

 

 

 

Non-Equity

Incentive

Plan

Compensation

(5)

 
 

Change
 in

Pension

Value
 and

Nonqualified

Deferred

Compensation

Earnings

 
(6)

 
 

 

 

 

 

All

Other

Compensation

 
(7)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Total

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

 
 

2009

 
 

$361,388

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$155,060

 
 

$143,280

 
 

$335,000

 
 

$535,700

 
 

$23,065

 
 

$1,553,493

Acting
 principal financial

 
 

2008

 
 

$336,948

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$151,480

 
 

$289,350

 
 

$400,023

 
 

$225,000

 
 

$61,294

 
 

$1,464,095

officer
 – Entergy Arkansas,

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 Gulf States Louisiana,

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 Louisiana, Entergy

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Mississippi,
 Entergy New

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Orleans,
 Entergy Texas

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

E.
 Renae Conley

 
 

2009

 
 

$423,360

 
 

$15,000

 
 

$155,060

 
 

$149,250

 
 

$307,000

 
 

$406,000

 
 

$42,899

 
 

$1,498,569

CEO-Entergy
 Louisiana and

 
 

2008

 
 

$403,096

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$151,480

 
 

$250,770

 
 

$415,000

 
 

$107,700

 
 

$90,525

 
 

$1,418,571

CEO-Entergy
 Gulf States

 
 

2007

 
 

$388,250

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$192,822

 
 

$314,500

 
 

$320,000

 
 

$276,700

 
 

$79,392

 
 

$1,571,664

Louisiana

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

2009

 
 

$654,231

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$372,144

 
 

$537,300

 
 

$507,150

 
 

$837,200

 
 

$60,688

 
 

$2,968,713

Executive
 Vice President and

 
 

2008

 
 

$621,231

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$2,973,900

 
 

$803,750

 
 

$617,400

 
 

$250,500

 
 

$150,285

 
 

$5,417,066

CFO
 – Entergy Corp.

 
 

2007

 
 

$584,422

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$413,190

 
 

$943,500

 
 

$516,600

 
 

$535,000

 
 

$128,933

 
 

$3,121,645

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Joseph
 F. Domino

 
 

2009

 
 

$329,976

 
 

$10,000

 
 

$69,777

 
 

$53,730

 
 

$111,373

 
 

$322,100

 
 

$45,396

 
 

$942,352

CEO
 - Entergy Texas

 
 

2008

 
 

$314,610

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$75,740

 
 

$112,525

 
 

$230,000

 
 

$92,800

 
 

$62,873

 
 

$888,548

 
 

 
 

2007

 
 

$304,122

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$91,820

 
 

$188,700

 
 

$135,000

 
 

$515,900

 
 

$62,089

 
 

$1,297,631

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Haley
 R. Fisackerly

 
 

2009

 
 

$274,999

 
 

$8,250

 
 

$69,777

 
 

$45,372

 
 

$138,000

 
 

$168,300

 
 

$35,675

 
 

$740,373

CEO
 – Entergy Mississippi

 
 

2008

 
 

$248,346

 
 

$41,000

 
 

$63,081

 
 

$64,550

 
 

$125,700

 
 

$143,500

 
 

$14,531

 
 

$700,708

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

433

 

 

 (a)

(b)

 
 

(c)

 
 

(d)

 
 

(e)

 
 

(f)

 
 

(g)

 
 

(h)

 
 

(i)

 
 

(j)

 

 

 

 

 

Name
 and

Principal
 Position

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Salary

(1)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bonus

(2)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Stock
 Awards

 
(3)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Option

Awards

 
(4)

 
 

 

 

 

Non-Equity

Incentive

Plan

Compensation

(5)

 
 

Change
 in

Pension

Value
 and

Nonqualified

Deferred

Compensation

Earnings

 
(6)

 
 

 

 

 

 

All

Other

Compensation

 
(7)

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Total

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard

2009

 
 

$1,341,174

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$9,850,425

 
 

$1,492,500

 
 

$1,782,270

 
 

$499,800

 
 

$200,040

 
 

$15,166,209

Chairman
 of the Board and

2008

 
 

$1,273,523

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$1,785,300

 
 

$2,813,125

 
 

$2,169,720

 
 

$313,200

 
 

$759,739

 
 

$9,114,607

CEO
 - Entergy Corp.

2007

 
 

$1,216,443

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$2,185,316

 
 

$4,009,875

 
 

$1,815,480

 
 

$4,879,200

 
 

$613,661

 
 

$14,719,975

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Hugh
 T. McDonald

2009

 
 

$324,610

 
 

$10,000

 
 

$69,777

 
 

$53,730

 
 

$128,066

 
 

$252,500

 
 

$67,221

 
 

$905,904

CEO-Entergy
 Arkansas

2008

 
 

$319,286

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$75,740

 
 

$112,525

 
 

$160,500

 
 

$42,700

 
 

$74,830

 
 

$785,581

 
 

2007

 
 

$309,088

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$91,820

 
 

$188,700

 
 

$120,000

 
 

$182,800

 
 

$61,851

 
 

$954,259

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith

2009

 
 

$669,807

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$372,144

 
 

$417,900

 
 

$519,225

 
 

$755,900

 
 

$140,779

 
 

$2,875,755

President
 and Chief Operating

2008

 
 

$638,394

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$421,980

 
 

$562,625

 
 

$632,100

 
 

$391,400

 
 

$220,708

 
 

$2,867,207

Officer
 - Entergy Corp.

2007

 
 

$599,612

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$413,190

 
 

$943,500

 
 

$535,886

 
 

$743,700

 
 

$153,733

 
 

$3,389,621

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Roderick
 K. West

2009

 
 

$327,115

 
 

$15,000

 
 

$69,777

 
 

$59,700

 
 

$158,000

 
 

$191,200

 
 

$40,883

 
 

$861,675

CEO-Entergy
 New Orleans

2008

 
 

$300,474

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$1,755,590

 
 

$128,600

 
 

$252,000

 
 

$164,200

 
 

$54,465

 
 

$2,655,329

 
 

2007

 
 

$270,752

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$91,820

 
 

$188,700

 
 

$155,000

 
 

$16,800

 
 

$43,543

 
 

$766,615

(1)

The
 amounts in column (c) represent the actual base salary paid to the Named
 Executive Officer. Changes in base salary were effective in
 April of the years shown and the base salary disclosed above is a
 combination of the two rates in effect during the year. The
 Named Executive Officers are paid on a bi-weekly basis and there was an
 extra pay period during calendar year 2009.

(2)

The
 amounts in column (d) for 2009 reflect the cash bonuses paid to Ms.
 Conley, Mr. Domino, Mr. Fisackerly, Mr. McDonald and Mr. West in lieu of
 an increase in their base salary. In 2008, Mr. Fisackerly
 received a cash bonus to compensate him for his discontinued participation
 in the Nuclear Retention Plan.

(3)

The
 amounts in column (e) represent the aggregate grant date fair value of
 performance units granted under the 2009 – 2011 Performance Unit Program
 of the Equity Ownership Plan calculated in accordance with accounting
 standards. For Mr. Leonard, it also includes the grant date
 fair value of restricted units granted to him in December 2009 calculated
 in accordance with accounting standards. The amounts included
 in column (e) for the 2009 – 2011 Plan are calculated based on the
 probable satisfaction of the performance conditions. If the
 highest level of performance is achieved, the maximum amounts that will be
 received under the plan are as follows: Mr. Bunting, $387,650;
 Ms. Conley, $387,650; Mr. Denault, $930,360; Mr. Domino, $174,443; Mr.
 Fisackerly, $174,443; Mr. Leonard, $4,361,063; Mr. McDonald, $174,443; Mr.
 Smith, $930,360; and Mr. West, $174,443. For a discussion of
 the relevant assumptions used in valuing these awards, see Note 12 to the
 Financial Statements.

(4)

The
 amounts in column (f) represent the aggregate grant date fair value of
 stock options granted under the Equity Ownership Plan calculated in
 accordance with accounting standards. For a discussion of the
 relevant assumptions used in valuing these awards, see Note 12 to the
 Financial Statements.

(5)

The
 amounts in column (g) represent cash payments made under the Executive
 Incentive Plan.

(6)

The
 amounts in column (h) include the annual actuarial increase in the present
 value of the Named Executive Officer's benefits under all pension plans
 established by Entergy Corporation using interest rate and mortality rate
 assumptions consistent with those used in Entergy Corporation's financial
 statements and includes amounts which the Named Executive Officers may not
 currently be entitled to receive because such amounts are not vested (see
 “2009 Pension Benefits”). None of the increase is attributable
 to above-market or preferential earnings on nonqualified deferred
 compensation (see “2009 Nonqualified Deferred
 Compensation”).

 
(7)

 
The
 amounts set forth in column (i) for 2009 include (a) matching
 contributions by Entergy Corporation to each of the Named Executive
 Officers; (b) life insurance premiums; (c) tax gross up payments relating
 to perquisites; (d) dividends paid on stock awards and (e) perquisites and
 other compensation. The amounts are listed in the following
 table:

 

 

434

 

 

 

 

Named
 Executive Officer

Company
 

Contribution
 – 

Savings
 Plan

Life
 

Insurance
 Premium

Tax
 Gross

Up

Payments

Dividends
 Paid

 on
 Stock

 Awards

Perquisites
 and 

Other
 

Compensation

 

 

Total

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

 
 $9,750

 $3,708

 
 $768

 
 $8,839

 $
 -

 
 $23,065

Renae
 E. Conley

 $10,054

 
 $988

 $7,021

 $10,230

 $14,606

 
 $42,899

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 $9,750

 $3,944

 $9,212

 $22,015

 $15,767

 
 $60,688

Joseph
 F. Domino

 
 $9,750

 $5,900

 $8,886

 
 $4,910

 $15,950

 
 $45,396

Haley
 R. Fisackerly

 
 $7,377

 
 $270

$10,138

 
 $2,455

 $15,435

 
 $35,675

J.
 Wayne Leonard

 
 $9,750

 $7,482

$15,871

$116,376

 $50,561

$200,040

Hugh
 T. McDonald

 
 $8,226

 $3,420

$22,014

 
 $4,910

 $28,651

 
 $67,221

Richard
 J. Smith

 
 $9,750

 $3,070

$49,656

 $22,015

 $56,288

$140,779

Roderick
 K. West

 $10,290

 
 $696

$11,201

 
 $4,910

 $13,786

 
 $40,883

Perquisites
and Other Compensation

The
amounts set forth in column (i) include perquisites and other personal benefits
that Entergy Corporation provides to the Named Executive Officers as part of
providing a competitive executive compensation program and for employee
retention. The following perquisites and other compensation were provided by
Entergy Corporation in 2009 to the Named Executive Officers:

 

Named
 Executive Officer

Financial
 Counseling

Club

 Dues

Personal
 Use of 

Corporate
 Aircraft

 

Relocation

Executive
 

Physicals

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

E.
 Renae Conley

x

 
 

x

 
 

x

Leo
 P. Denault

x

 
 

 
 

 
 

x

Joseph
 F. Domino

x

x

 
 

 
 

x

Haley
 R. Fisackerly

x

x

 
 

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard

x

 
 

x

 
 

x

Hugh
 T. McDonald

x

x

 
 

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith

x

 
 

x

x

 
 

Roderick
 K West

x

x

 
 

 
 

 
 

For
security and business reasons, Entergy Corporation permits Mr. Leonard to use
its corporate aircraft for personal use at the expense of Entergy
Corporation. The other Named Executive Officers may use the corporate
aircraft for personal travel subject to the approval of Entergy Corporation's
Chief Executive Officer. The aggregate incremental aircraft usage
cost associated with Mr. Leonard's personal use of the corporate
aircraft, including the costs associated with travel to outside board meetings,
was $26,869 for fiscal year 2009. These amounts are reflected in
column (i) and the total above. The incremental cost to Entergy
Corporation for use of the corporate aircraft is based on the variable
operational costs of each flight, including fuel, maintenance, flight crew
travel expense, catering, communications and fees, including flight planning,
ground handling and landing permits.

None of
the other individual perquisites items exceeded $25,000 for any of the Named
Executive Officers.

 

 

435

 

 

2009
Grants of Plan-Based Awards

The following table summarizes award
grants during 2009 to the Named Executive Officers.

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Estimated
 Future

Payouts
 Under Non-Equity

Incentive Plan
 Awards
(1)

 
 

Estimated
 Future

Payouts
 under Equity

Incentive Plan
 Awards
(2)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Name

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a)

 
 

Grant

Date

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(b)

 
 

Thresh-old

($)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(c)

 
 

Target

($)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(d)

 
 

Maximum

($)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(e)

 
 

Threshold

(#)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(f)

 
 

Target

(#)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(g)

 
 

Maximum

(#)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(h)

 
 

All
 Other

Stock

Awards:

Number

of
 Shares

of
 Stock

or
 Units

(#)

(3)

 

(i)

 
 

All
 Other

Option

Awards:

Number
 of

Securities

Under-lying

Options

(#)

(4)

 

(j)

 
 

Exercise

or
 Base

Price
 of

Option

Awards

($/Sh)

 

 

 

 

 

(k)

 
 

Grant

Date
 Fair

Value
 of

Stock
 and

Option

Awards

(5)

 

 

 

 

(l)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H.

Bunting,
 Jr.

 
 

 

1/29/09

 
 

 

-

 
 

 

$210,268

 
 

 

$420,536

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

200

 
 

2,000

 
 

5,000

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$387,650

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

12,000

 
 

$77.53

 
 

$143,280

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

E.
 Renae Conley

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

-

 
 

$244,608

 
 

$489,216

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

200

 
 

2,000

 
 

5,000

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$387,650

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

12,500

 
 

$77.53

 
 

$149,250

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

-

 
 

$441,000

 
 

 
 $882,000

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

480

 
 

4,800

 
 

12,000

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$930,360

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

45,000

 
 

$77.53

 
 

$537,300

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Joseph
 F. Domino

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

-

 
 

$158,877

 
 

$317,754

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

90

 
 

900

 
 

2,250

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$174,443

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

4,500

 
 

$77.53

 
 

$53,730

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Haley
 R. Fisackerly

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

-

 
 

$110,000

 
 

 
 $220,000

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

90

 
 

900

 
 

2,250

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$174,443

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

3,800

 
 

$77.53

 
 

$45,372

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

-

 
 

$1,549,800

 
 

$3,099,600

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

2,250

 
 

22,500

 
 

56,250

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$4,361,063

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

125,000

 
 

$77.53

 
 

$1,492,500

 
 

 
 

12/3/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

100,000

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$8,106,000

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Hugh
 T. McDonald

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

-

 
 

$161,066

 
 

$322,132

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

90

 
 

900

 
 

2,250

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$174,443

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

4,500

 
 

$77.53

 
 

$53,730

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

-

 
 

$451,500

 
 

$903,000

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

480

 
 

4,800

 
 

12,000

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$930,360

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

35,000

 
 

$77.53

 
 

$417,900

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Roderick
 K. West

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

-

 
 

$126,000

 
 

$252,000

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

90

 
 

900

 
 

2,250

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

$174,443

 
 

 
 

1/29/09

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

5,000

 
 

$77.53

 
 

$59,700

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

436

 

 

(1)

The
 amounts in columns (c), (d) and (e) represent minimum, target and maximum
 payment levels under the Executive Incentive Plan. The actual
 amounts awarded are reported in column (g) of the Summary Compensation
 Table.

(2)

The
 amounts in columns (f), (g) and (h) represent the minimum, target and
 maximum payment levels under the Performance Unit
 Program. Performance under the program is measured by Entergy
 Corporation's total shareholder return relative to the total shareholder
 returns of the companies included in the Philadelphia Utilities
 Index. If Entergy Corporation's total shareholder return is not
 at least 25% of that for the Philadelphia Utilities Index, there is no
 payout. Subject to achievement of performance targets, each
 unit will be converted into the cash equivalent of one share of Entergy
 Corporation's common stock on the last day of the performance period
 (December 31, 2011.)

(3)

In
 December 2009, the Personnel Committee granted 100,000 restricted units to
 Mr. Leonard. The restricted units vest in two equal
 installments of 50,000 units each on December 3, 2011 and December 3,
 2012. The restricted units were granted under the 2007 Equity
 Ownership Plan.

(4)

The
 amounts in column (j) represent options to purchase shares of Entergy
 Corporation's common stock. The options vest one-third on each
 of the first through third anniversaries of the grant date. The
 options have a ten-year term from the date of grant. The
 options were granted under the 2007 Equity Ownership
 Plan.

(5)

The
 amounts included in column (l) are valued based on the aggregate grant
 date fair value of the award calculated in accordance with accounting
 standards assuming the highest level of performance is
 achieved. See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for a
 discussion of the relevant assumptions used in calculating the grant date
 fair value.

 

437

 

 

2009
Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End

The following table summarizes
unexercised options, stock that has not vested and equity incentive plan awards
for each Named Executive Officer outstanding as of the end of 2009.

 
 

 
 

Option
 Awards

 
 

Stock
 Awards

(a)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name

 
 

(b)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number

 of

Securities

Underlying

Unexercised

Options

(#)

Exercisable

 
 

(c)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number

 of

Securities

Underlying

Unexercised

Options

(#)

Unexercisable

 

 
 

(d)

 

 

 

 

Equity

Incentive

Plan

Awards:

Number

of

Securities

Underlying

Unexercised

Unearned

Options

(#)

 
 

(e)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Option

Exercise

Price

($)

 
 

(f)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Option

Expiration

Date

 
 

(g)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number

of
 Shares

or
 Units

of
 Stock

That
 Have

Not

Vested

(#)

 
 

(h)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Market

Value
 of

Shares
 or

Units
 of

Stock

That
 Have

Not
 Vested

($)

 
 

(i)

 

 

 

Equity

Incentive

Plan

Awards:

Number
 of

Unearned

Shares,

Units
 or

Other

 Rights

That
 Have

Not
 Vested

(#)

 
 

(j)

 

Equity

Incentive

Plan

Awards:

Market
 or Payout

Value
 of

Unearned

Shares,

Units
 or

Other

Rights

That
 Have

Not
 Vested

($)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H.

 
 

-

 
 

12,000
(1)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $77.53

 
 

1/29/2019

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Bunting,
 Jr.

 
 

6,000

 
 

12,000
(2)

 
 

 
 

 
 

$108.20

 
 

1/24/2018

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

6,666

 
 

3,334
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $91.82

 
 

1/25/2017

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

5,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $68.89

 
 

1/26/2016

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

2,200

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $69.47

 
 

1/27/2015

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $58.60

 
 

3/02/2014

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

200
(4)

 
 

$16,368

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1,400
(5)

 
 

$114,576

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

E.
 Renae Conley

 
 

-

 
 

12,500
(1)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 $77.53

 
 

1/29/2019

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

5,200

 
 

10,400
(2)

 
 

 
 

 
 

$108.20

 
 

1/24/2018

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

6,667

 
 

3,333
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $91.82

 
 

1/25/2017

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

7,050

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $68.89

 
 

1/26/2016

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

7,500

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $69.47

 
 

1/27/2015

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

9,200

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $58.60

 
 

3/02/2014

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

12,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $44.45

 
 

1/30/2013

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

200
(4)

 
 

$16,368

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1,400
(5)

 
 

$114,576

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

-

 
 

45,000
(1)

 
 

 
 

 
 

$77.53

 
 

1/29/2019

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

16,666

 
 

33,334
(2)

 
 

 
 

 
 

$108.20

 
 

1/24/2018

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

40,000

 
 

20,000
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $91.82

 
 

1/25/2017

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

50,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $68.89

 
 

1/26/2016

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

35,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $69.47

 
 

1/27/2015

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

40,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $58.60

 
 

3/02/2014

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

676

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $52.40

 
 

2/11/2012

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

7,720

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $52.40

 
 

1/25/2011

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

9,800

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $44.45

 
 

1/30/2013

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

19,656

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $41.69

 
 

2/11/2012

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

5,434

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $37.00

 
 

1/25/2011

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

480
(4)

 
 

$39,283

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

3,900
(5)

 
 

$319,176

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

24,000
(6)

 
 

$1,964,160

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Joseph
 F. Domino

 
 

-

 
 

4,500
(1)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $77.53

 
 

1/29/2019

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

2,333

 
 

4,667
(2)

 
 

 
 

 
 

$108.20

 
 

1/24/2018

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

8,000

 
 

4,000
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $91.82

 
 

1/25/2017

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

7,500

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $68.89

 
 

1/26/2016

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

10,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $69.47

 
 

1/27/2015

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

10,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $58.60

 
 

3/02/2014

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

10,500

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $44.45

 
 

1/30/2013

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

90
(4)

 
 

$7,366

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

700
(5)

 
 

$57,288

 

 

438

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

Option
 Awards

 
 

Stock
 Awards

(a)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name

 
 

(b)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number

 of

Securities

Underlying

Unexercised

Options

(#)

Exercisable

 
 

(c)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number

 of

Securities

Underlying

Unexercised

Options

(#)

Unexercisable

 

 
 

(d)

 

 

 

 

Equity

Incentive

Plan

Awards:

Number

of

Securities

Underlying

Unexercised

Unearned

Options

(#)

 
 

(e)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Option

Exercise

Price

($)

 
 

(f)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Option

Expiration

Date

 
 

(g)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number

of
 Shares

or
 Units

of
 Stock

That
 Have

Not

Vested

(#)

 
 

(h)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Market

Value
 of

Shares
 or

Units
 of

Stock

That
 Have

Not
 Vested

($)

 
 

(i)

 

 

 

Equity

Incentive

Plan

Awards:

Number
 of

Unearned

Shares,

Units
 or

Other

 Rights

That
 Have

Not
 Vested

(#)

 
 

(j)

 

Equity

Incentive

Plan

Awards:

Market
 or Payout

Value
 of

Unearned

Shares,

Units
 or

Other

Rights

That
 Have

Not
 Vested

($)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Haley
 R. Fisackerly

 
 

-

 
 

3,800
(1)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $77.53

 
 

1/29/2019

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1,666

 
 

3,334
(2)

 
 

 
 

 
 

$108.20

 
 

1/24/2018

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1,666

 
 

834
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $91.82

 
 

1/25/2017

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $68.89

 
 

1/26/2016

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

90
(4)

 
 

$7,366

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

583
(5)

 
 

$47,713

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard

 
 

-

 
 

125,000
(1)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $77.53

 
 

1/29/2019

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

58,333

 
 

116,667
(2)

 
 

 
 

 
 

$108.20

 
 

1/24/2018

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

170,000

 
 

85,000
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $91.82

 
 

1/25/2017

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

210,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $68.89

 
 

1/26/2016

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

165,200

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $69.47

 
 

1/27/2015

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

220,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $58.60

 
 

3/02/2014

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

195,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $44.45

 
 

1/30/2013

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

330,600

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $41.69

 
 

2/11/2012

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

330,600

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $37.00

 
 

1/25/2011

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

2,250
(4)

 
 

$184,140

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

16,500
(5)

 
 

$1,350,360

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

100,000
(7)

 
 

$8,184,000

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Hugh
 T. McDonald

 
 

-

 
 

4,500
(1)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $77.53

 
 

1/29/2019

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

2,333

 
 

4,667
(2)

 
 

 
 

 
 

$108.20

 
 

1/24/2018

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

8,000

 
 

4,000
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $91.82

 
 

1/25/2017

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

7,500

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $68.89

 
 

1/26/2016

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

12,522

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $73.25

 
 

2/11/2012

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

10,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $69.47

 
 

1/27/2015

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

10,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $58.60

 
 

3/02/2014

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

12,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $44.45

 
 

1/30/2013

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

90
(4)

 
 

$7,366

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

700
(5)

 
 

$57,288

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith

 
 

-

 
 

35,000
(1)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 $77.53

 
 

1/29/2019

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

11,666

 
 

23,334
(2)

 
 

 
 

 
 

$108.20

 
 

1/24/2018

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

40,000

 
 

20,000
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $91.82

 
 

1/25/2017

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

50,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $68.89

 
 

1/26/2016

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

40,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $69.47

 
 

1/27/2015

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

63,600

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $58.60

 
 

3/02/2014

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

7,640

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $51.50

 
 

1/25/2011

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

50,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $44.45

 
 

1/30/2013

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

70,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $41.69

 
 

2/11/2012

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

39,428

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $37.00

 
 

1/25/2011

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

480
(4)

 
 

$39,283

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

3,900
(5)

 
 

$319,176

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

439

 

 

 
 

 
 

Option
 Awards

 
 

Stock
 Awards

(a)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name

 
 

(b)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number

 of

Securities

Underlying

Unexercised

Options

(#)

Exercisable

 
 

(c)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number

 of

Securities

Underlying

Unexercised

Options

(#)

Unexercisable

 

 
 

(d)

 

 

 

 

Equity

Incentive

Plan

Awards:

Number

of

Securities

Underlying

Unexercised

Unearned

Options

(#)

 
 

(e)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Option

Exercise

Price

($)

 
 

(f)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Option

Expiration

Date

 
 

(g)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Number

of
 Shares

or
 Units

of
 Stock

That
 Have

Not

Vested

(#)

 
 

(h)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Market

Value
 of

Shares
 or

Units
 of

Stock

That
 Have

Not
 Vested

($)

 
 

(i)

 

 

 

Equity

Incentive

Plan

Awards:

Number
 of

Unearned

Shares,

Units
 or

Other

 Rights

That
 Have

Not
 Vested

(#)

 
 

(j)

 

Equity

Incentive

Plan

Awards:

Market
 or Payout

Value
 of

Unearned

Shares,

Units
 or

Other

Rights

That
 Have

Not
 Vested

($)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Roderick
 K. West

 
 

-

 
 

5,000
(1)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $77.53

 
 

1/29/2019

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

2,666

 
 

5,334
(2)

 
 

 
 

 
 

$108.20

 
 

1/24/2018

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

8,000

 
 

4,000
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $91.82

 
 

1/25/2017

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

1,334

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $68.89

 
 

1/26/2016

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

667

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 $69.47

 
 

1/27/2015

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

90
(4)

 
 

$7,366

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

700
(5)

 
 

$57,288

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

15,000
(8)

 
 

$1,227,600

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

(1)

Consists
 of options that will vest as follows: 1/3 of the options granted vest on
 each of 1/29/2010, 1/29/2011 and 1/29/2012.

(2)

Consists
 of options that will vest as follows: 1/2 of the unexercisable options
 vest on each of 1/24/2010 and 1/24/2011.

(3)

The
 remaining unexercisable options will vest on 1/25/2010.

(4)

Consists
 of performance units that will vest on December 31, 2011 only if, and to
 the extent that, Entergy Corporation satisfies performance conditions as
 described under "Long-Term Compensation – Performance Unit Program" in
 Compensation Discussion and Analysis.

(5)

Consists
 of performance units that will vest on December 31, 2010 only if, and to
 the extent that, Entergy Corporation satisfies performance conditions as
 described under "Long-Term Compensation – Performance Unit Program" in
 Compensation Discussion and Analysis.

(6)

Consists
 of restricted units granted under the 2007 Equity Ownership
 Plan. 8,000 units will vest on each of January 25, 2011, 2012
 and 2013.

(7)

Consists
 of restricted units granted under the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan 50,000 of
 which will vest on December 3, 2011 and the remaining 50,000 will visit on
 December 3, 2012.

(8)

Consists
 of restricted units granted under the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan which
 will vest on April 8, 2013.

 

440

 

 

2009
Option Exercises and Stock Vested

The following table provides
information concerning each exercise of stock options and each vesting of stock
during 2009 for the Named Executive Officers.

 
 

 
 

Options
 Awards

 
 

Stock
 Awards

(a)

 

 

 

 

Name

 
 

(b)

Number
 of

Shares

Acquired

on
 Exercise

(#)

 
 

(c)

 

Value

Realized

on
 Exercise

($)

 
 

(d)

Number
 of

Shares

Acquired

on
 Vesting

(#)
 
(1)

 
 

(e)

 

Value

Realized

on
 Vesting

($)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

1,139

 
 

$93,216

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

E.
 Renae Conley

 
 

4,546

 
 

$124,347

 
 

1,322

 
 

$108,192

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

12,404

 
 

$322,969

 
 

2,834

 
 

$231,935

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Joseph
 F. Domino

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

630

 
 

$51,559

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Haley
 R. Fisackerly

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

315

 
 

$25,780

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard

 
 

330,600

 
 

$18,723,928

 
 

64,988
(2)

 
 

$5,275,618

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Hugh
 T. McDonald

 
 

9,199

 
 

$311,553

 
 

630

 
 

$51,559

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith

 
 

40,137

 
 

$1,091,955

 
 

2,834

 
 

$231,935

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Roderick
 K. West

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

630

 
 

$51,559

(1)

Represents
 the vesting of performance units for the 2007 - 2009 performance period
 (payable solely in cash based on the closing stock price of Entergy
 Corporation on the date of vesting) under the Performance Unit
 Program.

(2)

Amount
 includes the August 3, 2009 cash settlement of 50,000 restricted units
 granted under the 2007 Equity Ownership
Plan.

 

441

 

 

2009
Pension Benefits

The following table shows the present
value as of December 31, 2009, of accumulated benefits payable to each of the
Named Executive Officers, including the number of years of service credited to
each Named Executive Officer, under the retirement plans sponsored by Entergy
Corporation, determined using interest rate and mortality rate assumptions set
forth in Note 11 to the Financial Statements. Information regarding
these retirement plans is included in Compensation Discussion & Analysis
under the heading, "Benefits, Perquisites, Agreements and Post-Retirement Plans
- Pension Plan, Pension Equalization Plan, and System Executive Retirement
Plan." In addition, this section includes information regarding early
retirement options under the plans.

 

 

 

Name

 
 

 

 

Plan

Name

 
 

Number

of
 Years

Credited

Service

 
 

Present

Value
 of

Accumulated

Benefit

 
 

 

Payments

During

 2009

 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr. 
(1)

 
 

Non-qualified
 System

 Executive
 Retirement Plan

 
 

 

21.86

 
 

 

$1,479,700

 
 

 

$
 -

 

 
 

 
 

Qualified
 defined

 benefit
 plan

 
 

 

21.11

 
 

 

$320,100

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

E.
 Renae Conley 
(2)

 
 

Non-qualified
 Pension

 Equalization
 Plan

 
 

 

27.35

 
 

 

$1,325,300

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

Qualified
 defined

 benefit
 plan

 
 

 

10.83

 
 

 

$197,700

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault 
(3)

 
 

Non-qualified
 System

 Executive
 Retirement Plan

 
 

 

25.83

 
 

 

$3,239,300

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

Qualified
 defined

 benefit
 plan

 
 

 

10.83

 
 

 

$155,900

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Joseph
 F. Domino 
(1)

 
 

Non-qualified
 System

 Executive
 Retirement Plan

 
 

 

39.56

 
 

 

$1,615,100

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

Qualified
 defined

 benefit
 plan

 
 

 

36.13

 
 

 

$997,500

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Haley
 R. Fisackerly

 
 

Non-qualified
 System

 Executive
 Retirement Plan

 
 

 

14.08

 
 

 

$284,400

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

Qualified
 defined

 benefit
 plan

 
 

 

14.08

 
 

 

$149,300

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard 
(4)

 
 

Non-qualified
 supplemental

 retirement
 plan benefit

 
 

 

11.68

 
 

 

$24,323,900

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

Qualified
 defined

 benefit
 plan

 
 

 

11.68

 
 

 

$285,900

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Hugh
 T. McDonald 
(1)

 
 

Non-qualified
 System

 Executive
 Retirement Plan

 
 

 

27.93

 
 

 

$918,800

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

Qualified
 defined

 benefit
 plan

 
 

 

26.44

 
 

 

$411,300

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith 
(5)

 
 

Non-qualified
 Pension

 Equalization
 Plan

 
 

 

33.25

 
 

 

$3,701,700

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

Qualified
 defined

 benefit
 plan

 
 

 

10.33

 
 

 

$241,300

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Roderick
 K. West

 
 

Non-qualified
 System

 Executive
 Retirement Plan

 
 

 

10.75

 
 

 

$334,600

 
 

 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

Qualified
 defined

 benefit
 plan

 
 

 

10.75

 
 

 

$90,600

 
 

 

$
 -

 

 
 

(1)

Service
 under the non-qualified System Executive Retirement Plan is granted from
 date of hire. Qualified plan benefit service is granted from
 the later of date of hire or plan participation date.

(2)

Ms.
 Conley entered into an agreement granting 16.52 additional years of
 service under the non-qualified Pension Equalization Plan increasing the
 present value of the accumulated benefit by $26,000 over the benefit she
 would receive under the non-qualified System Executive Retirement
 Plan.

(3)

During
 2006, Mr. Denault entered into an agreement granting an additional 15
 years of service under the non-qualified System Executive Retirement Plan
 if he continues to work for an Entergy System company employer until age
 55. The additional 15 years of service increases the present
 value of his benefit by $1,431,700.

 

 

442

 

 

(4)

Pursuant
 to his retention agreement, Mr. Leonard is entitled to a non-qualified
 supplemental retirement benefit in lieu of participation in Entergy
 Corporation's non-qualified supplemental retirement plans such as the
 System Executive Retirement Plan or the Pension Equalization
 Plan. Mr. Leonard may separate from employment without a
 reduction in his non-qualified supplemental retirement
 benefit.

(5)

Mr.
 Smith entered into an agreement granting 22.92 additional years of service
 under the non-qualified Pension Equalization Plan providing an additional
 $999,300 above the accumulated benefit he would receive under the
 non-qualified System Executive Retirement
Plan.

 

Qualified
Retirement Benefits

The
qualified retirement plan is a funded defined benefit pension plan that provides
benefits to most of the non-bargaining unit employees of Entergy System
companies. All Named Executive Officers are participants in this
plan. The pension plan provides a monthly benefit payable for the
participant's lifetime beginning at age 65 and equal to 1.5% of the
participant's five-year average monthly eligible earnings times such
participant's years of service. Participants are 100% vested in their
benefit upon completing 5 years of vesting service.

Normal
retirement under the plan is age 65. Employees who terminate
employment prior to age 55 may receive a reduced deferred vested retirement
benefit payable as early as age 55 that is actuarially equivalent to the normal
retirement benefit (i.e., reduced by 7% per year for the first 5 years preceding
age 65, and reduced by 6% for each additional year thereafter). Employees who
are at least age 55 with 10 years of vesting service upon termination from
employment are entitled to a subsidized early retirement benefit beginning as
early as age 55. The subsidized early retirement benefit is equal to
the normal retirement benefit reduced by 2% per year for each year that early
retirement precedes age 65.

Mr.
Domino, Mr. Leonard and Mr. Smith are eligible for subsidized early retirement
benefits.

Nonqualified
Retirement Benefits

The Named
Executive Officers are eligible to participate in certain nonqualified
retirement benefit plans that provide retirement income, including the Pension
Equalization Plan and the System Executive Retirement Plan. Each of
these plans is an unfunded nonqualified defined benefit pension plan that
provides benefits to key management employees. In these plans, each
described below and in Compensation Discussion and Analysis, an executive is
typically enrolled in one or more plans but only paid the amount due under the
plan that provides the highest benefit. In general, upon disability,
participants in the Pension Equalization Plan and the System Executive
Retirement Plan remain eligible for continued service credits until recovery or
retirement. Generally, spouses of participants who die before
commencement of benefits may be eligible for a portion of the participant's
accrued benefit.

The
Pension Equalization Plan

All of
the Named Executive Officers (with the exception of Mr. Leonard) are
participants in the Pension Equalization Plan. The benefit provisions
are substantially the same as the qualified retirement plan but provide two
additional benefits: (a) "restorative benefits" intended to offset limitations
on certain earnings that may be considered in connection with the qualified
retirement plan and (b) supplemental credited service (if granted to an
individual participant). The benefits under this plan are offset by
benefits payable from the qualified retirement plan and may be offset by prior
employer benefits. Participants receive their Pension Equalization
Plan benefit in the form of a single sum cash distribution. The
Pension Equalization Plan benefit attributable to supplemental credited service
is not vested until age 65. Subject to the approval of the Entergy
System company employer, an employee who terminates employment prior to age 65
may be vested in his or her benefit, with payment of the lump sum benefit
generally at separation from service unless delayed six months under Internal
Revenue Code Section 409A. Benefits payable prior to age 65 are
subject to the same reductions as qualified plan benefits.

 

 

443

 

 

The
System Executive Retirement Plan

All Named
Executive Officers (except Mr. Leonard) are participants in the System Executive
Retirement Plan. The System Executive Retirement Plan provides for a
single sum payment at age 65, as further described in Compensation Discussion
and Analysis. The System Executive Retirement Plan benefit is not
vested until age 65. Subject to the approval of the Entergy System
company employer, an employee who terminates his or her employment prior to age
65 may be vested in the System Executive Retirement Plan benefit, with payment
of the lump sum benefit generally at separation from service unless delayed six
months under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. Benefits payable prior to
age 65 are subject to the same reductions as qualified plan benefits. 
Further, in the event of a change in control, participants whose employment is
terminated without “Cause” or for “Good Reason,” as defined in the Plan are also
eligible for a subsidized lump sum benefit payment, even if they do not
currently meet the age or service requirements for early retirement under that
plan or have company permission to separate from employment. Such lump sum
benefit is payable generally at separation from service unless delayed 6 months
under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A.

Mr.
Leonard's Nonqualified Supplemental Retirement Benefit

Mr.
Leonard's retention agreement provides that if his employment with the Company
is terminated for any reason other than for cause (as defined below under
“Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control”), he will be entitled
to a non-qualified supplemental retirement benefit in lieu of participation in
Entergy Corporation's non-qualified supplemental retirement plans such as the
System Executive Retirement Plan or the Pension Equalization
Plan. Mr. Leonard's non-qualified supplemental retirement benefit is
calculated as a single life annuity equal to 60% of his final three-year average
compensation (as described in the description of the System Executive Retirement
Plan included in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis), reduced to account
for benefits payable to Mr. Leonard under Entergy Corporation's and a former
employer's qualified pension plans. The benefit is payable in a
single lump sum. Because Mr. Leonard has already attained the age of 55,
he is currently entitled under his retention agreement to his non-qualified
supplemental retirement benefit if he were to leave Entergy System company
employment other than as the result of a termination for cause.

Additional
Information

For a
description of the material terms and conditions of payments and benefits
available under the retirement plans, including each plan's normal retirement
payment and benefit, benefit formula and eligibility standards, specific
elements of compensation included in applying the payment and benefit formula,
and Entergy Corporation's policies with regard to granting extra years of
credited service, see "Compensation Discussion and Analysis -- Benefits,
Perquisites, Agreements and Post-Termination Plans -- Pension Plan, Pension
Equalization Plan and System Executive Retirement Plan." For a
discussion of the relevant assumptions used in valuing these liabilities, see
Note 11 to the Financial Statements.

 

 

444

 

 

2009
Nonqualified Deferred Compensation

The following tables provide
information regarding the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, the Amended and
Restated 1998 Equity Ownership Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries (the
1998 Equity Ownership Plan) and the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan, which allow for
the deferral of compensation for the Named Executive Officers.
 
For additional
information, see "Benefits, Perquisites, Agreements and Post-Termination Plans -
Executive Deferred Compensation" in Compensation Discussion and
Analysis. All Named Executive Officers are eligible to participate in
the deferral programs.

Additionally,
some of the Named Executive Officers have deferred account balances under a
frozen Defined Contribution Restoration Plan. These amounts are
deemed invested in the options available under this Defined Contribution
Restoration Plan. The Defined Contribution Restoration Plan, until it was frozen
in 2005, credited eligible employees' deferral accounts with employer
contributions to the extent contributions under the qualified savings plan in
which the employee participated were subject to limitations imposed by the
Internal Revenue Code.

All deferrals are credited to the
applicable Entergy System company employer's non-funded liability
account. Depending on the plan under which the deferral is made, the
Named Executive Officers may elect investment in either phantom Entergy
Corporation common stock or one or more of several investment options available
under the Savings Plan. Within limitations of the program,
participating Named Executive Officers may move funds from one deemed investment
option to another. The participating Named Executive Officers do not
have the ability to withdraw funds from the deemed investment accounts except
within the terms provided in their deferral elections. Within
the limitations prescribed by law as well as the program, participating Named
Executive Officers have the option to make a successive deferral of these
funds. Assuming a Named Executive Officer does not elect a
successive deferral, the Entergy System company employer of the participant is
obligated to pay the amount credited to the participant's account at the earlier
of deferral receipt date or separation from service. These payments
are paid out of the general assets of the employer and are payable in a lump
sum.

FICA and Medicare taxes are paid on all
deferred amounts prior to their deferral. Applicable federal and
state taxes are paid at the time the deferred amounts are paid to the
participant. Employees are not eligible for a "match" of amounts that
are deferred by them pursuant to the deferred compensation
programs. With the exception of allowing for the deferral of federal
and state taxes, the Entergy System company employer provides no additional
benefit to the Named Executive Officers in connection with amounts deferred
under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. The deemed investment
options available to participating Named Executive Officers are limited to
certain deemed investment options available to all non-officer employees under
the Savings Plan. Deferred amounts are deemed credited with earnings
or losses based on the rate of return of deemed investment options (under the
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan) or Entergy Corporation common stock (under
the Equity Ownership Plan or 2007 Equity Plan). In 2006, the
Personnel Committee approved a number of recommendations to simplify the
deferral programs and reduce the number of options available to the Named
Executive Officers.

 

 

445

 

 

Executive
Deferred Compensation Plan

 

 

 

Name

(a)

 
 

 

Executive

Contributions
 in

 2009

(b)

 
 

 

Registrant

Contributions
 in

2009

(c)

 
 

 

Aggregate

Earnings
 in

2009
 
(1)

(d)

 
 

 

Aggregate

Withdrawals/

Distributions

(e)

 
 

Aggregate

Balance
 at

December
 31,

2009
 
(2)

 (f)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

E.
 Renae Conley

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$7,105
 

 
 

($574,905)

 
 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Joseph
 F. Domino

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$130 

 
 

($239,857)

 
 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$8,272 

 
 

($175,235)

 
 

$203,900

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Hugh
 T. McDonald

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$356 

 
 

($1,211,343)

 
 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$5,581 

 
 

($843,075)

 
 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

(1)

Amounts
 in this column are not included in the Summary Compensation
 Table.

(2)

For
 Mr. Leonard, approximately $183,000 of the amount reported in this column
 has previously been reported in the Summary Compensation
 Table.

 
 

Equity
Ownership Plan

 

 

 

Name

(a)

 
 

 

Executive

Contributions
 in

 2009

(b)

 
 

 

Registrant

Contributions
 in

2009

(c)

 
 

 

Aggregate

Earnings
 in

2009
 
(1)

(d)

 
 

 

Aggregate

Withdrawals/

Distributions

(e)

 
 

Aggregate

Balance
 at

December
 31,

2009

(f)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

E.
 Renae Conley

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$10,203 

 
 

($1,064,918)

 
 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$89,463 

 
 

($9,337,269)

 
 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Hugh
 T. McDonald

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$14,690 

 
 

($1,533,205)

 
 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

(1)

Amounts
 in this column are not included in the Summary Compensation
 Table.

 
 

Defined
Contribution Restoration Plan

 

 

 

Name

(a)

 
 

 

Executive

Contributions
 in

 2009

(b)

 
 

 

Registrant

Contributions
 in

2009

(c)

 
 

 

Aggregate

Earnings
 in

2009
 
(1)

 (d)

 
 

 

Aggregate

Withdrawals/

Distributions

(e)

 
 

Aggregate

Balance
 at

December
 31,

2009

(f)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$104 

 
 

($10,791)

 
 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

E.
 Renae Conley

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$821 

 
 

($85,644)

 
 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Leo
 P. Denault

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$606 

 
 

($63,276)

 
 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Joseph
 F. Domino

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$339 

 
 

($32,811)

 
 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

J.
 Wayne Leonard

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$5,520 

 
 

$
 -
 

 
 

$232,665

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Hugh
 T. McDonald

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$233 

 
 

($24,233)

 
 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Richard
 J. Smith

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$
 -

 
 

$1,458 

 
 

($152,193)

 
 

$
 -

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

(1)

Amounts
 in this column are not included in the Summary Compensation
 Table.

 

446

 

 

Potential
Payments upon Termination or Change in Control

Estimated
Payments

The tables below reflect the amount of
compensation each named executive officer would receive upon the occurrence of
the specified separation triggering events, based on available programs and
specific agreements with each executive. The tables assume the
separation was effective on December 31, 2009, the last business day of the last
fiscal year, and the stock price of Entergy Corporation common stock is $81.84,
which was the closing market price on such date.

Theodore
H. Bunting, Jr

Senior
Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer

The
following table shows certain payments and benefits, excluding vested or earned
awards and benefits, which the Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer
would have been entitled to receive as a result of a termination of his
employment under various scenarios as of December 31, 2009:

 

Benefits
 and Payments Upon Termination
(1)

Voluntary
 Resignation

For
 Cause

Termination
 for Good Reason or Not 

for 
Cause

Retirement
 
(6)

Disability

Death
 
(7)

Change in Control 
(8)

Termination
 Related to a Change 

in
 Control

Severance
 Payment
(2
)

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

$1,121,434

Performance
 Units:
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 2008-2010
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

---

$76,384

$76,384

$114,576

$114,576

 2009-2011
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

---

$54,560

$54,560

$163,680

$163,680

Unvested
 Stock Options
(4)

---

---

---

---

$51,720

$51,720
(7)

$51,720

$51,720

Medical
 and Dental Benefits

 (5)

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

$23,730

280G
 Tax Gross-up

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

$1,354,235

 

1

In
 addition to the payments and benefits in the table, Mr. Bunting also would
 have been entitled to receive his vested pension benefits. For
 a description of the pension benefits available to Named Executive
 Officers, see "2009 Pension Benefits." If Mr. Bunting's
 employment were terminated under certain conditions relating to a change
 in control, he would also be eligible for early retirement benefits, which
 are described in "2009 Pension Benefits." If Mr. Bunting's
 employment were terminated "for cause," he would forfeit his System
 Executive Retirement Plan supplemental benefits.

2

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. Bunting
 would be entitled to receive pursuant to the System Executive Continuity
 Plan a lump sum severance payment equal to two times his base salary plus
 annual incentive, calculated at target
 opportunity.

 

 

447

 

 

3

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. Bunting
 would have been entitled to receive pursuant to the System Executive
 Continuity Plan a lump sum payment relating to his performance
 units. The payment is calculated as if all performance goals
 relating to the performance unit were achieved at target
 level. For purposes of the table, the value of Mr. Bunting's
 awards have been calculated as follows:

 

2008
 - 2010 Plan - 1,400 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

 

2009
 - 2011 Plan - 2,000 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

 

For
 scenarios other than a termination related to a change in control, the
 award is not enhanced or accelerated by the termination
 event. With respect to death or disability, the award is
 pro-rated based on the number of months of participation in each
 Performance Unit Program performance cycle. The amount of the
 award is based on actual performance achieved, with a stock price set as
 of the end of the performance period, and payable in the form of a lump
 sum after the completion of the performance period.

4

In
 the event of disability or a termination related to a change in control,
 all of Mr. Bunting's unvested stock options would immediately
 vest. In addition, he would be entitled to exercise his stock
 options for the remainder of the ten-year extending from the grant date of
 the options. For purposes of this table, it is assumed that Mr. Bunting
 exercised his options immediately upon vesting and received proceeds equal
 to the difference between the closing price of common stock on December
 31, 2009, and the applicable exercise price of each option
 share.

5

Pursuant
 to the System Executive Continuity Plan, in the event of a termination
 related to a change in control, Mr. Bunting would be eligible to receive
 subsidized medical and dental benefits for a period up to 18
 months.

6

As
 of December 31, 2009, compensation and benefits available to Mr. Bunting
 under this scenario are substantially the same as available with a
 voluntary resignation.

7

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan (applicable to grants of equity awards made
 after January 1, 2007), in the event of a plan participant's death, all
 unvested stock options would become immediately
 exercisable.

8

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan, plan participants are entitled to receive
 an acceleration of certain benefits based solely upon a change in control
 in the Company without regard to whether their employment is terminated as
 a result of a change in control. The accelerated benefits in the
 event of a change in control are as follows:

 

·
 
All
 unvested stock options would become immediately exercisable.

·
 
All
 performance units become vested (based on the assumption that all
 performance goals were achieved at target).

 

 

448

 

E.
Renae Conley

President
and CEO, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana

The
following table shows certain payments and benefits, excluding vested or earned
awards and benefits, which the President & CEO, Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana would have been entitled to receive as a result
of a termination of her employment under various scenarios as of December 31,
2009:

Benefits
 and Payments Upon Termination
(1)

Voluntary
 Resignation

For
 Cause

Termination
 for Good Reason or Not for Cause

Retirement
 
(6)

Disability

Death
 
(7)

Change
 in Control 
(8)

Termination
 Related to a Change in Control

 
 

Severance
 Payment
(2
)

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

$1,304,575

Performance
 Units:
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

2008-2010
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

---

$76,384

$76,384

$114,576

$114,576

2009-2011
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

---

$54,560

$54,560

$163,680

$163,680

Unvested
 Stock Options
(4)

---

---

---

---

$53,875

$53,875
(7)

$53,875

$53,875

Medical
 and Dental Benefits

 (5)

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

$7,896

280G
 Tax Gross-up

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

 

1

In
 addition to the payments and benefits in the table, Ms. Conley also would
 have been entitled to receive her vested pension benefits. For
 a description of the pension benefits available to Named Executive
 Officers, see "2009 Pension Benefits." If Ms. Conley's
 employment were terminated under certain conditions relating to a change
 in control, she would also be eligible for early retirement benefits,
 which are described in "2009 Pension Benefits." If Ms. Conley's
 employment were terminated "for cause," she would forfeit her supplemental
 credited service and System Executive Retirement Plan supplemental
 benefits.

2

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Ms. Conley
 would be entitled to receive pursuant to the System Executive Continuity
 Plan a lump sum severance payment equal to two times her base salary plus
 annual incentive, calculated at target opportunity.

3

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Ms. Conley
 would have been entitled to receive pursuant to the System Executive
 Continuity Plan a lump sum payment relating to her performance
 units. The payment is calculated as if all performance goals
 relating to the performance unit were achieved at target
 level. For purposes of the table, the value of Ms. Conley's
 awards have been calculated as follows:

 

2008
 - 2010 Plan - 1,400 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

 

2009
 - 2011 Plan - 2,000 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

 

For
 scenarios other than a termination related to a change in control, the
 award is not enhanced or accelerated by the termination
 event. With respect to death or disability, the award is
 pro-rated based on the number of months of participation in each
 Performance Unit Program performance cycle. The amount of the
 award is based on actual performance achieved, with a stock price set as
 of the end of the performance period, and payable in the form of a lump
 sum after the completion of the performance
 period.

 

 

449

 

 

4

In
 the event of disability or a termination related to a change in control,
 all of Ms. Conley's unvested stock options would immediately
 vest. In addition, she would be entitled to exercise her stock
 options for the remainder of the ten-year extending from the grant date of
 the options. For purposes of this table, it is assumed that Ms. Conley
 exercised her options immediately upon vesting and received proceeds equal
 to the difference between the closing price of common stock on December
 31, 2009, and the applicable exercise price of each option
 share.

5

Pursuant
 to the System Executive Continuity Plan, in the event of a termination
 related to a change in control, Ms. Conley would be eligible to receive
 subsidized medical and dental benefits for a period up to 18
 months.

6

As
 of December 31, 2009, compensation and benefits available to Ms. Conley
 under this scenario are substantially the same as available with a
 voluntary resignation.

7

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan (applicable to grants of equity awards made
 after January 1, 2007), in the event of a plan participant's death, all
 unvested stock options would become immediately
 exercisable.

8

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan, plan participants are entitled to receive
 an acceleration of certain benefits based solely upon a change in control
 in the Company without regard to whether their employment is terminated as
 a result of a change in control. The accelerated benefits in the
 event of a change in control are as follows:

 

·
 
All
 unvested stock options would become immediately exercisable.

·
 
All
 performance units become vested (based on the assumption that all
 performance goals were achieved at target).

 

 

450

 

 

Leo
P. Denault

 

Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 

The
following table shows certain payments and benefits, excluding vested or earned
awards and benefits, which the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer would have been entitled to receive as a result of a termination of his
employment under various scenarios as of December 31, 2009:

Benefits
 and Payments Upon Termination
(1)

Voluntary
 Resignation

For
 Cause

Termination
 for Good Reason or Not for Cause

Retirement
(8)

Disability

Death
 
(9)

Change
 in Control
(10
)

Termination
 Related to a Change in Control

 

 

Severance
 Payment
(2
)

---

---

$3,202,290

 
---

 
---

 
---

 
---

$3,202,290

Performance
 Units:
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

2008-2010
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

$319,176

---

$319,176

$319,176

$319,176

$319,176

2009-2011
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

$392,832

---

$392,832

$392,832

$392,832

$392,832

Unvested
 Stock Options
(4)

---

---

$193,950

---

$193,950

$193,950
 
(9)

$193,950

$193,950

Unvested
 Restricted Units
(5)

---

---

$1,995,120

---

$1,995,120

$1,995,120

$1,995,120

$1,995,120

COBRA
 Benefits
(6)

---

---

$13,962

---

---

---

---

---

Medical
 and Dental Benefits
(7)

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

$13,962

280G
 Tax Gross-up

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

$3,457,221

1

In
 addition to the payments and benefits in the table, Mr. Denault also would
 have been entitled to receive his vested pension benefits. If Mr.
 Denault’s employment were terminated under certain conditions relating to
 a change in control, he would also be eligible for early retirement
 benefits. For a description of these benefits, see “2009
 Pension Benefits.” In addition, Mr. Denault is subject to the following
 provisions:

Retention Agreement
. Mr.
 Denault’s retention agreement provides that, unless his employment is
 terminated for cause, he will be granted an additional 15 years of
 service under the System Executive Retirement Plan if he continues to
 work for an Entergy System company employer until age
 55. Because Mr. Denault had not reached age 55 as of December
 31, 2009, he is only entitled to this supplemental credited service and
 System Executive Retirement Plan supplemental benefits in the event of
 his death or disability.

System Executive Retirement
 Plan
. If Mr. Denault’s employment were terminated for
 cause, he would forfeit his benefit under the System Executive
 Retirement Plan. In the event of a termination related
 to a change in control, pursuant to the terms of the System Executive
 Retirement Plan, Mr. Denault would be eligible for subsidized retirement
 (but not the additional 15 years of service) upon his separation of
 service even if he does not then meet the age or service requirements
 for early retirement under the System Executive Retirement Plan or have
 company permission to separate from
 employment.

 

 

451

 

 

2

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control or a termination
 by Mr. Denault for good reason or by Entergy not for cause, Mr. Denault
 would be entitled to receive pursuant to his retention agreement a lump
 sum severance payment equal to 2.99 times the sum of his base salary plus
 annual incentive, calculated at target opportunity. For
 purposes of this table, we have calculated the award at a 70% target
 opportunity and assumed a base salary of $630,000.

3

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, a termination
 by Mr. Denault for good reason or a termination by Entergy other than for
 cause, disability or death, Mr. Denault would have been entitled to
 receive under the terms of his retention agreement a lump sum payment
 relating to his performance units. The payment is calculated as if all
 performance goals relating to the performance units were achieved at
 target level. For purposes of the table, we have calculated the value of
 Mr. Denault’s awards as follows:

 
 2008 -
 2010 Plan – 3,900 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

 
 2009 -
 2012 Plan – 4,800 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

4

In
 the event of disability or a termination related to a change in control,
 all of Mr. Denault’s unvested stock options would immediately
 vest. In addition, he would be entitled to exercise any
 unexercised options during a ten-year term extending from the grant date
 of the options. Further, pursuant to Mr. Denault’s
 retention agreement, in the event of a termination for good reason or
 other than for cause, all of Mr. Denault’s unvested stock options granted
 under the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan (applicable to grants of equity
 awards made after January 1, 2007) would immediately vest. For
 purposes of this table, we assumed that Mr. Denault exercised his options
 immediately upon vesting and received proceeds equal to the difference
 between the closing price of common stock on December 31, 2009, and the
 exercise price of each option share.

5

 

 

6

Mr.
 Denault’s 24,000 restricted units vest 1/3 in 2011, 1/3 in 2012 and 1/3 in
 2013. Pursuant to his restricted unit agreement, any unvested restricted
 units will vest immediately in the event of change in control, termination
 related to a change in control, a termination by Mr. Denault for good
 reason or a termination by Entergy other than for cause, disability or
 death.

 

Pursuant
 to his retention agreement, in the event of a termination by Entergy other
 than cause or by Mr. Denault for good reason, Mr. Denault would be
 eligible to receive company-subsidized COBRA benefits for a period of 18
 months.

7

Pursuant
 to the System Executive Continuity Plan, in the event of a termination
 related to a change in control, Mr. Denault would be eligible to receive
 subsidized medical and dental benefits for a period up to 18
 months.

8

As
 of December 31, 2009, compensation and benefits available to Mr. Denault
 under this scenario are substantially the same as available under a
 voluntary resignation.

9

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan, in the event of a plan participant’s
 death, all unvested stock options would become immediately
 exercisable

10

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan, plan participants are entitled to receive
 an acceleration of certain benefits based solely upon a change in control
 in the Company without regard to whether their employment is terminated as
 a result of a change in control. The accelerated benefits in the
 event of a change in control are as follows:

All
 unvested stock options would become immediately exercisable;
 and

All
 performance units become vested (based on the assumption that all
 performance goals were achieved at
 target)

 

 

452

 

 

Under the
terms of Mr. Denault’s retention agreement, Entergy may terminate his employment
for cause upon Mr. Denault’s:

 

· 

continuing
 failure to substantially perform his duties (other than because of
 physical or mental illness or after he has given notice of termination for
 good reason) that remains uncured for 30 days after receiving a written
 notice from the Personnel
Committee;

 

· 

willfully
 engaging in conduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to
 Entergy;

 

· 

conviction
 of or entrance of a plea of guilty or 
nolo contendere
 to a
 felony or other crime that has or may have a material adverse effect on
 his ability to carry out his duties or upon Entergy’s
 reputation;

 

· 

material
 violation of any agreement that he has entered into with Entergy;
 or

 

· 

unauthorized
 disclosure of Entergy’s confidential
 information.

 

Mr.
Denault may terminate his employment for good reason upon:

 

· 

the
 substantial reduction in the nature or status of his duties or
 responsibilities;

 

· 

a
 reduction of 5% or more in his base salary as in effect on the date of the
 retention agreement;

 

· 

the
 relocation of his principal place of employment to a location other than
 the corporate headquarters;

 

· 

the
 failure to continue to allow him to participate in programs or plans
 providing opportunities for equity awards, stock options, restricted
 stock, stock appreciation rights, incentive compensation, bonus and other
 plans on a basis not materially less favorable than enjoyed at the time of
 the retention agreement (other than changes similarly affecting all senior
 executives);

 

· 

the
 failure to continue to allow him to participate in programs or plans with
 opportunities for benefits not materially less favorable than those
 enjoyed by him under any of our pension, savings, life insurance, medical,
 health and accident, disability or vacation plans at the time of the
 retention agreement (other than changes similarly affecting all senior
 executives); or

 

· 

any
 purported termination of his employment not taken in accordance with his
 retention agreement.

 

Mr.
Denault may terminate his employment for good reason in the event of a change in
control upon:

 

· 

the
 substantial reduction or alteration in the nature or status of his duties
 or responsibilities;

 

· 

a
 reduction in his annual base
salary;

 

· 

the
 relocation of his principal place of employment to a location more than 20
 miles from his current place of
employment;

 

· 

the
 failure to pay any portion of his compensation within seven days of its
 due date;

 

· 

the
 failure to continue in effect any compensation plan in which he
 participates and which is material to his total compensation, unless other
 equitable arrangements are made;

 

· 

the
 failure to continue to provide benefits substantially similar to those
 that he currently enjoys under any of the pension, savings, life
 insurance, medical, health and accident or disability plans, or Entergy
 taking of any other action which materially reduces any of those benefits
 or deprives him of any material fringe benefits that he currently
 enjoys;

 

· 

the
 failure to provide him with the number of paid vacation days to which he
 is entitled in accordance with the normal vacation policy;
 or

 

· 

any
 purported termination of his employment not taken in accordance with his
 retention agreement

 

 

453

 

 

Joseph
F. Domino

President
& CEO - Entergy Texas

The
following table shows certain payments and benefits, excluding vested or earned
awards and benefits, which the President and CEO – Entergy TX would have been
entitled to receive as a result of a termination of his employment under various
scenarios as of December 31, 2009:

Benefits
 and Payments Upon Termination
(1)

Voluntary
 Resignation

For
 Cause

Termination
 for Good Reason or Not for Cause

Retirement
 
(6)

Disability

Death
 
(7)

Change
 in Control 
(8)

Termination
 Related to a Change in Control

 

Severance
 Payment
(2
)

 
---

 
---

 -
--

 
---

 
---

 
---

 
---

 
$476,631

Performance
 Units:
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

2008-2010
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

$38,192

$38,192

$38,192

$57,288

$57,288

2009-2011
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

$24,552

$24,552

$24,552

$73,656

$73,656

Unvested
 Stock Options
(4)

---

---

---

$19,395

$19,375

$19,395
(7)

$19,375

$19,395

Medical
 and Dental Benefits

 (5)

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

280G
 Tax Gross-up

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

 

1

In
 addition to the payments and benefits in the table, Mr. Domino would have
 been eligible to retire and entitled to receive his vested pension
 benefits. For a description of the pension benefits available
 to Named Executive Officers, see "2009 Pension Benefits." If
 Mr. Domino's employment were terminated under certain conditions relating
 to a change in control, he would also be eligible for early retirement
 benefits, which are described in "2009 Pension Benefits." If
 Mr. Domino's employment were terminated "for cause," he would forfeit his
 System Executive Retirement Plan and other similar supplemental
 benefits.

 

2

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. Domino
 would be entitled to receive pursuant to the System Executive Continuity
 Plan a lump sum severance payment equal to one time the sum of his base
 salary plus annual incentive, calculated at target
 opportunity.

 

3

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. Domino
 would have been entitled to receive pursuant to the System Executive
 Continuity Plan a lump sum payment relating to his performance
 units. The payment is calculated as if all performance goals
 relating to the performance unit were achieved at target
 level. For purposes of the table, the value of Mr. Domino's
 awards was calculated as follows:

 

 

 
 2008 -
 2010 Plan – 700 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

 
 2009 -
 2012 Plan – 900 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

 

For
 scenarios other than a termination related to a change in control, the
 award is not enhanced or accelerated by the termination
 event. With respect to death, disability or retirement (as Mr.
 Domino is eligible for retirement), the award is pro-rated based on the
 number of months of participation in each Performance Unit Program
 performance cycle. The amount of the award is based on actual
 performance achieved, with a stock price set as of the end of the
 performance period, and payable in the form of a lump sum after the
 completion of the performance period.

 

 

454

 

 

4

In
 the event of retirement, disability or a termination related to a change
 in control, all of Mr. Domino's unvested stock options would immediately
 vest. In addition, he would be entitled to exercise his stock
 options for the remainder of the ten-year extending from the grant date of
 the options. For purposes of this table, it is assumed that Mr. Domino
 exercised his options immediately upon vesting and received proceeds equal
 to the difference between the closing price of common stock on December
 31, 2009, and the applicable exercise price of each option
 share.

5

Upon
 retirement Mr. Domino would be eligible for retiree medical and dental
 benefits. Pursuant to the System Executive Continuity Plan, in
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. Domino
 would be eligible to receive additional subsidized medical and dental
 benefits similar to those provided to a retiree.

6

As
 of December 31, 2009, compensation and benefits available to Mr. Domino
 under this scenario are substantially the same as available with a
 voluntary resignation.
 
For
 information regarding these vested benefits, see the Pension Benefits
 table included in this Form 10-K.

7

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan (applicable to grants of equity awards made
 after January 1, 2007), in the event of a plan participant's death, all
 unvested stock options would become immediately
 exercisable.

8

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan, plan participants are entitled to receive
 an acceleration of certain benefits based solely upon a change in control
 in the Company without regard to whether their employment is terminated as
 a result of a change in control. The accelerated benefits in the
 event of a change in control are as follows:

 

·
 
All
 unvested stock options would become immediately exercisable.

·
 
All
 performance units become vested (based on the assumption that all
 performance goals were achieved at
target).

 

455

 

 

Haley
R. Fisackerly

President
& CEO - Entergy Mississippi

The
following table shows certain payments and benefits, excluding vested or earned
awards and benefits, which the President and CEO - Entergy Mississippi would
have been entitled to receive as a result of a termination of his employment
under various scenarios as of December 31, 2009:

Benefits
 and Payments Upon Termination
(1)

Voluntary
 Resignation

For
 Cause

Termination
 for Good Reason or Not for Cause

Retirement
 
(6)

Disability

Death
 
(7)

Change
 in Control 
(8)

Termination
 Related to a Change in Control

 

Severance
 Payment
(2
)

 
---

 
---

 
---

 
---

 
---

 
---

 
---

 
$385,000

Performance
 Units:
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

2008-2010
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

---

$31,808

$31,808

$47,713

$47,713

2009-2011
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

---

$24,552

$24,552

$73,656

$73,656

Unvested
 Stock Options
(4)

---

---

---

---

$16,378

$16,378
(7)

$16,378

$16,378

Medical
 and Dental Benefits

 (5)

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

$15,820

280G
 Tax Gross-up

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

1

In
 addition to the payments and benefits in the table, Mr. Fisackerly also
 would have been entitled to receive his vested pension
 benefits. For a description of the pension benefits available
 to Named Executive Officers, see "2009 Pension Benefits." If
 Mr. Fisackerly's employment were terminated under certain conditions
 relating to a change in control, he would also be eligible for early
 retirement benefits, which are described in "2009 Pension
 Benefits." If Mr. Fisackerly's employment were terminated "for
 cause," he would forfeit his System Executive Retirement Plan and other
 similar supplemental benefits.

2

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. Fisackerly
 would be entitled to receive pursuant to the System Executive Continuity
 Plan a lump sum severance payment equal to one time the sum of his base
 salary plus annual incentive, calculated at target
 opportunity.

 

 

456

 

 

3

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. Fisackerly
 would have been entitled to receive pursuant to the System Executive
 Continuity Plan a lump sum payment relating to his performance
 units. The payment is calculated as if all performance goals
 relating to the performance unit were achieved at target
 level. For purposes of the table, the value of Mr. Fisackerly's
 awards was calculated as follows:

 

 
2008
 - 2010 Plan – 583 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

 
2009
 - 2012 Plan – 900 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

 

For
 scenarios other than a termination related to a change in control, the
 award is not enhanced or accelerated by the termination
 event. With respect to death or disability, the award is
 pro-rated based on the number of months of participation in each
 Performance Unit Program performance cycle. The amount of the
 award is based on actual performance achieved, with a stock price set as
 of the end of the performance period, and payable in the form of a lump
 sum after the completion of the performance period.

4

In
 the event of disability or a termination related to a change in control,
 all of Mr. Fisackerly's unvested stock options would immediately
 vest. In addition, he would be entitled to exercise his stock
 options for the remainder of the ten-year extending from the grant date of
 the options. For purposes of this table, it is assumed that Mr. Fisackerly
 exercised his options immediately upon vesting and received proceeds equal
 to the difference between the closing price of common stock on December
 31, 2009, and the applicable exercise price of each option
 share.

 

5

Pursuant
 to the System Executive Continuity Plan, in the event of a termination
 related to a change in control, Mr. Fisackerly would be eligible to
 receive subsidized medical and dental benefits for a period up to 12
 months.

6

As
 of December 31, 2009, compensation and benefits available to Mr.
 Fisackerly under this scenario are substantially the same as available
 with a voluntary resignation.

7

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan (applicable to grants of equity awards made
 after January 1, 2007), in the event of a plan participant's death, all
 unvested stock options would become immediately
 exercisable.

8

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan, plan participants are entitled to receive
 an acceleration of certain benefits based solely upon a change in control
 in the Company without regard to whether their employment is terminated as
 a result of a change in control. The accelerated benefits in the
 event of a change in control are as follows:

 

·
 
All
 unvested stock options would become immediately exercisable.

·
 
All
 performance units become vested (based on the assumption that all
 performance goals were achieved at
target).

 

457

 

 

J.
Wayne Leonard

Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer

The
following table shows certain payments and benefits, excluding vested or earned
awards and benefits, which Entergy's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer would
have been entitled to receive as a result of a termination of his employment
under various scenarios as of December 31, 2009:

 
 

Benefits
 and Payments Upon Termination
(1)

Voluntary
 Resignation

For
 Cause

Termination
 for Good Reason or Not for Cause

Retirement
 
(8)

Disability

Death
(9)

Change
 in Control
(10)

Termination
 Related to a Change in Control

 

 
Annual
 Incentive Payment
(2)

---
 

---
 

---
 

---
 

---
 

---
 

---
 

$3,099,600
 

Severance
 Payment
(3
)

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

$8,495,487

Performance
 Units:
(4)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

2008-2010
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

$900,240

$900,240

$900,240

$1,350,360

$1,350,360

2009-2011
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

$613,800

$613,800

$613,800

$1,841,400

$1,841,400

Unvested
 Stock Options
(5)

---

---

---

$538,750

$538,750

$538,750
 
(9)

$538,750

$538,750

Unvested
 Restricted Units
(6)

---

---

$8,184,000

---

$8,184,000

$8,184,000

---

$8,184,000

Medical
 and Dental Benefits
(7)

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

280G
 Tax Gross-up

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

 

1

In
 addition to the payments and benefits in the table, Mr. Leonard would have
 been eligible to retire and entitled to receive his vested pension
 benefits. However, a termination “for cause” would have resulted in
 forfeiture of Mr. Leonard’s supplemental retirement benefit. Mr. Leonard
 is not entitled to additional pension benefits in the event of a change in
 control. For additional information regarding these vested
 benefits and awards, see “2009 Pension Benefits.”

2

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. Leonard
 would have been entitled under his retention agreement to receive a lump
 sum payment of his cash annual incentive bonus under the Annual Incentive
 Plan calculated at maximum annual bonus opportunity. For
 purposes of this table, we have calculated the award at 200% of target
 opportunity and assumed a base salary of $1,291,500.

3

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. Leonard
 would have been entitled to receive pursuant to his retention agreement a
 lump sum severance payment equal to the sum of 2.99 times his base salary
 plus target annual incentive (calculated at 120% of his base
 salary).

 

 

458

 

 

4

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, including a
 termination by Mr. Leonard for good reason, by Entergy other than for
 cause, disability or death, Mr. Leonard would have been entitled to
 receive under the terms of his retention agreement a lump sum payment
 relating to his performance units. The payment is calculated as if all
 performance goals relating to the performance unit were achieved at target
 level. For purposes of the table, we have calculated the value of Mr.
 Leonard’s awards as follows:

 

2008
 - 2010 Plan – 16,500 performance units at target, assuming a stock price
 of $81.84

2009
 - 2011 Plan – 22,500 performance units at target, assuming a stock price
 of $81.84

 

For
 scenarios other than a termination related to a change in control, the
 award is not enhanced or accelerated by the termination event. With
 respect to death or disability, the award is pro-rated based on the number
 of months of participation in each Performance Unit Program performance
 cycle. The amount of the award is based on actual performance achieved,
 with a stock price set as of the end of the performance period, and
 payable in the form of a lump sum after the completion of the performance
 period.

5

In
 the event of retirement, disability or a termination related to a change
 in control, all of Mr. Leonard’s unvested stock options would immediately
 vest. In addition, Mr. Leonard would be entitled to exercise any
 outstanding options during a ten-year term extending from the grant date
 of the options. For purposes of this table, we assumed that Mr. Leonard
 exercised his options immediately upon vesting and received proceeds equal
 to the difference between the closing price of common stock on December
 31, 2009, and the exercise price of each option share.

6

Mr.
 Leonard’s 100,000 restricted units vest in two installments on December 3,
 2011 and December 3, 2012. Pursuant to his restricted unit agreement, any
 unvested restricted units will vest immediately in the event of a
 termination related to a change in control, in the event of the
 termination of his employment by Mr. Leonard for good reason, by the
 Company other than for cause, or by reason of his death or
 disability.

7

Pursuant
 to Mr. Leonard’s retention agreement, in the event of a termination
 related to a change in control, Mr. Leonard is not eligible to receive
 additional medical and dental benefits. Upon retirement Mr. Leonard would
 be eligible for retiree medical and dental benefits similar to those
 provided to Entergy retirees.

8

As
 of December 31, 2009, Mr. Leonard is retirement eligible and would retire
 rather than voluntarily resign. Given this scenario, the
 compensation and benefits available to Mr. Leonard under retirement are
 substantially the same as available with a voluntary
 resignation.

9

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan (applicable to grants of equity awards made
 after January 1, 2007), in the event of a plan participant’s death, all
 unvested stock options would become immediately
 exercisable.

10

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan, plan participants are entitled to receive
 an acceleration of certain benefits based solely upon a change in control
 in the Company without regard to whether their employment is terminated as
 a result of a change in control. The accelerated benefits in the
 event of a change in control are as follows:

 

• All
 unvested stock options would become immediately exercisable;
 and

• All
 performance units become vested (based on the assumption that all
 performance goals were achieved at
target).

 

Under the
terms of Mr. Leonard's retention agreement, we may terminate his employment for
cause upon Mr. Leonard's:

 

· 

willful
 and continued failure to substantially perform his duties (other than
 because of physical or mental illness or after he has given notice of
 termination for good reason) that remains uncured for 30 days after
 receiving a written notice from the Board;
or

 

 

459

 

 

· 

willfully
 engaging in conduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to us
 and which results in a conviction of or entrance of a plea of guilty or
 
nolo contendere

 (essentially a form of plea in which the accused refuses to contest the
 charges) to a felony.

 

In the
event of a change in control, Mr. Leonard may terminate his employment for good
reason upon:

 

· 

the
 substantial reduction or alteration in the nature or status of his duties
 or responsibilities;

 

· 

a
 reduction in his annual base
salary;

 

· 

the
 relocation of his principal place of employment to a location more than 20
 miles from his current place of
employment;

 

· 

the
 failure to pay any portion of his compensation within seven days of its
 due date;

 

· 

the
 failure to continue in effect any compensation plan in which he
 participates and which is material to his total compensation, unless other
 equitable arrangements are made;

 

· 

the
 failure to continue to provide benefits substantially similar to those
 that he currently enjoys under any of the pension, savings, life
 insurance, medical, health and accident or disability plans, or the taking
 of any other action which materially reduces any of those benefits or
 deprives him of any material fringe benefits that he currently
 enjoys;

 

· 

the
 failure to provide him with the number of paid vacation days to which he
 is entitled in accordance with the normal vacation policy;
 or

 

· 

any
 purported termination of his employment not taken in accordance with his
 retention agreement.

 

 

460

 

 

Hugh
T. McDonald

President
& CEO, Entergy Arkansas

The
following table shows certain payments and benefits, excluding vested or earned
awards and benefits, which the President & CEO, Entergy Arkansas would have
been entitled to receive as a result of a termination of his employment under
various scenarios as of December 31, 2009:

Benefits
 and Payments Upon Termination
(1)

Voluntary
 Resignation

For
 Cause

Termination
 for Good Reason or Not for Cause

Retirement
 
(6)

Disability

Death
 
(7)

Change
 in Control 
(8)

Termination
 Related to a Change in Control

 

Severance
 Payment
(2
)

 
 
---

 
 
---

 
 
---

 
 
---

 
 
---

 
 
---

 
 
---

 
 
$483,198

Performance
 Units:
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

2008-2010
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

---

$38,192

$38,192

$57,288

$57,288

2009-2011
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

---

$24,552

$24,552

$73,656

$73,656

Unvested
 Stock Options
(4)

---

---

---

---

$19,395

$19,395
(7)

$19,395

$19,395

Medical
 and Dental Benefits

 (5)

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

$15,820

280G
 Tax Gross-up

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

 

1

In
 addition to the payments and benefits in the table, Mr. McDonald also
 would have been entitled to receive his vested pension
 benefits. For a description of the pension benefits available
 to Named Executive Officers, see "2009 Pension Benefits." If
 Mr. McDonald's employment were terminated under certain conditions
 relating to a change in control, he would also be eligible for early
 retirement benefits, which are described in "2009 Pension
 Benefits." If Mr. McDonald's employment were terminated "for
 cause," he would forfeit his Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan and
 other similar supplemental benefits.

2

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. McDonald
 would be entitled to receive pursuant to the System Executive Continuity
 Plan a lump sum severance payment equal to one time his base salary plus
 annual incentive, calculated at target
 opportunity.

 

 

461

 

 

3

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. McDonald
 would have been entitled to receive pursuant to the System Executive
 Continuity Plan a lump sum payment relating to his performance
 units. The payment is calculated as if all performance goals
 relating to the performance unit were achieved at target
 level. For purposes of the table, the value of Mr. McDonald's
 awards has been calculated as follows:

 

2008
 - 2010 Plan – 700 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

2009
 - 2011 Plan – 900 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

 

For
 scenarios other than a termination related to a change in control, the
 award is not enhanced or accelerated by the termination event. With
 respect to death or disability, the award is pro-rated based on the number
 of months of participation in each Performance Unit Program performance
 cycle. The amount of the award is based on actual performance
 achieved, with a stock price set as of the end of the performance period,
 and payable in the form of a lump sum after the completion of the
 performance period.

4

In
 the event of disability or a termination related to a change in control,
 all of Mr. McDonald's unvested stock options would immediately
 vest. In addition, he would be entitled to exercise his stock
 options for the remainder of the ten-year extending from the grant date of
 the options. For purposes of this table, it is assumed that Mr.
 McDonald exercised his options immediately upon vesting and received
 proceeds equal to the difference between the closing price of common stock
 on December 31, 2009, and the applicable exercise price of each option
 share.

5

Pursuant
 to the System Executive Continuity Plan, in the event of a termination
 related to a change in control, Mr. McDonald would be eligible to receive
 subsidized medical and dental benefits for a period up to 12
 months.

6

As
 of December 31, 2009, compensation and benefits available to Mr. McDonald
 under this scenario are substantially the same as available with a
 voluntary resignation.

7

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan (applicable to grants of equity awards made
 after January 1, 2007), in the event of a plan participant's death, all
 unvested stock options would become immediately
 exercisable.

8

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan, plan participants are entitled to receive
 an acceleration of certain benefits based solely upon a change in control
 in the Company without regard to whether their employment is terminated as
 a result of a change in control. The accelerated benefits in the
 event of a change in control are as follows:

 

·
 
All
 unvested stock options would become immediately exercisable.

·
 
All
 performance units become vested (based on the assumption that all
 performance goals were achieved at
target).

 

462

 

 

Richard
J. Smith

President
and Chief Operating Officer

The
following table shows certain payments and benefits, excluding vested or earned
awards and benefits, which the President and Chief Operating Officer would have
been entitled to receive as a result of a termination of his employment under
various scenarios as of December 31, 2009:

Benefits
 and Payments Upon Termination
(1)

Voluntary
 Resignation

For
 Cause

Termination
 for Good Reason or Not for Cause

Retirement

(6)

Disability

Death
 
(7)

Change
 in Control

(8)

Termination
 Related to a Change in Control

 
 

 
 

Severance
 Payment
(2)

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

$3,278,535

Performance
 Units:
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 2008-2010 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

$212,784

$212,784

$212,784

$319,176

$319,176

 
 2009-2011 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

$130,944

$130,944

$130,944

$392,832

$392,832

Unvested
 Stock Options
(4)

---

---

---

$150,850

$150,850

$150,850
 
(7)

$150,850

$150,850

Medical
 and Dental Benefits
(5)

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

280G
 Tax Gross-up

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

 

1

In
 addition to the payments and benefits in the table, Mr. Smith would have
 been eligible to retire and entitled to receive his vested pension
 benefits. For a description of the pension benefits available to Named
 Executive Officers, see "2009 Pension Benefits." In the event of a
 termination related to a change in control, pursuant to the terms of the
 Pension Equalization Plan, Mr. Smith would be eligible for subsidized
 early retirement even if he does not have company permission to separate
 from employment. If Mr. Smith's employment were terminated for
 cause, he would not receive a benefit under the Pension Equalization
 Plan.

2

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. Smith would
 be entitled to receive pursuant to the System Executive Continuity Plan a
 lump sum severance payment equal to 2.99 times the sum of his base salary
 plus annual incentive, calculated at target
 opportunity.

 

 

463

 

 

3

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. Smith would
 have been entitled to receive pursuant to the System Executive Continuity
 Plan a lump sum payment relating to his performance units. The payment is
 calculated as if all performance goals relating to the performance units
 were achieved at target level. For purposes of the table, the value of Mr.
 Smith's awards were calculated as follows:

 

2008
 - 2010 Plan – 3,900 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

2009
 - 2012 Plan – 4,800 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

 

With
 respect to death or disability, the award is pro-rated based on the number
 of months of participation in each Performance Unit Program performance
 cycle. The amount of the award is based on actual performance achieved,
 with a stock price set as of the end of the performance period, and
 payable in the form of a lump sum after the completion of the performance
 period.

4

In
 the event of disability or a termination related to a change in control,
 all of Mr. Smith's unvested stock options would immediately vest. In
 addition, he would be entitled to exercise his stock options for the
 remainder of the ten-year term extending from the grant date of the
 options. For purposes of this table, it is assumed that Mr. Smith
 exercised his options immediately upon vesting and received proceeds equal
 to the difference between the closing price of common stock on December
 31, 2009, and the exercise price of each option share.

5

Upon
 retirement Mr. Smith would be eligible for retiree medical and dental
 benefits. Pursuant to the System Executive Continuity Plan, in
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. Smith would
 not be eligible to receive additional subsidized medical and dental
 benefits similar to those provided to Entergy retirees.

6

As
 of December 31, 2009, Mr. Smith is retirement eligible and would retire
 rather than voluntarily resign. Given that scenario, the
 compensation and benefits available to Mr. Smith under retirement are
 substantially the same as available with a voluntary
 resignation.

7

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan (applicable to grants of equity awards made
 after January 1, 2007), in the event of a plan participant's death, all
 unvested stock options would become immediately
 exercisable.

8

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan, plan participants are entitled to receive
 an acceleration of certain benefits based solely upon a change in control
 in the Company without regard to whether their employment is terminated as
 a result of a change in control. The accelerated benefits in the
 event of a change in control are as follows:

 

·
 
All
 unvested stock options would become immediately exercisable.

·
 
All
 performance units become vested (based on the assumption that all
 performance goals were achieved at
target)

 

The
information in this table does not reflect the agreement entered into with Mr.
Smith in December 2009. In order to receive any payments contemplated by the
agreement, the planned Spin Transaction must not occur and (i) Mr. Smith must
remain employed for 24 months after a public announcement that the Spin
Transaction will not occur or (ii) he must remain continuously employed in such
capacity for at least six (6) months after any such public announcement and
thereafter retire with the consent of Entergy’s Chief Executive
Officer. Neither event occurred between the date of this agreement
and December 31, 2009. If these events occur, Mr. Smith will be
entitled to receive a lump sum cash payment equal to 1.5 times his base salary
as of the date of separation from Entergy. See “Compensation
Discussion and Analysis” for a complete description of Mr. Smith’s
agreement.

 

464

 

 

Roderick
K. West

 

President
& CEO, Entergy New Orleans

 

The
following table shows certain payments and benefits, excluding vested or earned
awards and benefits, which the President & CEO, Entergy New Orleans would
have been entitled to receive as a result of a termination of her employment
under various scenarios as of December 31, 2009:

Benefits
 and Payments Upon Termination
(1)

Voluntary
 Resignation

For
 Cause

Termination
 for Good Reason or Not for Cause

Retirement
 
(6)

Disability

Death
 
(7)

Change
 in Control 
(9)

Termination
 Related to a Change in Control

 

Severance
 Payment
(2
)

 
---

 
---

 
---

 
---

 
---

 
---

 
---

 
$441,000

Performance
 Units:
(3)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 2007-2009
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

 

$38,192

$38,192

$57,288

$57,288

 2008-2010
 Performance Unit Program

---

---

---

---

$24,552

$24,552

$73,656

$73,656

Unvested
 Stock Options
(4)

---

---

---

---

$21,550

$21,550
(7)

$21,550

$21,550

Unvested
 Restricted Units
(8)

---

---

$1,227,600

---

---

---

$1,227,600

$1,227,600

Medical
 and Dental Benefits
(5)

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

$15,820

280G
 Tax Gross-up

---

---

---

---

---

---

---

$710,829

1

In
 addition to the payments and benefits in the table, Mr. West also would
 have been entitled to receive his vested pension benefits. For
 a description of the pension benefits available to Named Executive
 Officers, see "2009 Pension Benefits." If Mr. West's employment
 were terminated under certain conditions relating to a change in control,
 he would also be eligible for early retirement benefits, which are
 described in "2009 Pension Benefits." If Mr. West's employment
 were terminated "for cause," he would forfeit his System Executive
 Retirement Plan and other similar supplemental
benefits.

2

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. West would
 be entitled to receive pursuant to the System Executive Continuity Plan a
 lump sum severance payment equal to one time his base salary plus annual
 incentive, calculated at target
opportunity.

 

 

465

 

 

3

In
 the event of a termination related to a change in control, Mr. West would
 have been entitled to receive pursuant to the System Executive Continuity
 Plan a lump sum payment relating to his performance units. The
 payment is calculated as if all performance goals relating to the
 performance unit were achieved at target level. For purposes of
 the table, the value of Mr. West's awards have been calculated as
 follows:

 

 
 2008 -
 2010 Plan – 700 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

 
 2009 -
 2012 Plan – 900 performance units at target, assuming a stock price of
 $81.84

 

For
 scenarios other than a termination related to a change in control, the
 award is not enhanced or accelerated by the termination
 event. With respect to death or disability, the award is
 pro-rated based on the number of months of participation in each
 Performance Unit Program performance cycle. The amount of the
 award is based on actual performance achieved, with a stock price set as
 of the end of the performance period, and payable in the form of a lump
 sum after the completion of the performance period.

4

In
 the event of disability or a termination related to a change in control,
 all of Mr. West's unvested stock options would immediately
 vest. In addition, he would be entitled to exercise his stock
 options for a ten-year term extending from the grant date of the options.
 For purposes of this table, it is assumed that Mr. West exercised his
 options immediately upon vesting and received proceeds equal to the
 difference between the closing price of common stock on December 31, 2009,
 and the applicable exercise price of each option share.

5

Pursuant
 to the System Executive Continuity Plan, in the event of a termination
 related to a change in control, Mr. West would be eligible to receive
 subsidized medical and dental benefits for period up to 12
 months.

6

As
 of December 31, 2009, compensation and benefits available to Mr. West
 under this scenario are substantially the same as available with a
 voluntary resignation.

7

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan (applicable to grants of equity awards made
 after January 1, 2007), in the event of a plan participant's death, all
 unvested stock options would become immediately
 exercisable.

8

Mr.
 West's 15,000 restricted unit vest 100% in 2013. Pursuant to
 his restricted unit agreement, any unvested restricted units will vest
 immediately in the event of termination for good reason or not for cause
 and a change in control.

9

Under
 the 2007 Equity Ownership Plan, plan participants are entitled to receive
 an acceleration of certain benefits based solely upon a change in control
 in the Company without regard to whether their employment is terminated as
 a result of a change in control. The accelerated benefits in the
 event of a change in control are as follows:

 

·
 
All
 unvested stock options would become immediately exercisable.

·
 
All
 performance units become vested (based on the assumption that all
 performance goals were achieved at target).

 

 

466

 

 

In the
following sections, additional information is provided regarding certain of the
scenarios described in the tables above:

 

Termination
Related to a Change in Control

 

Under the
System Executive Continuity Plan, the Named Executive Officers will be entitled
to the benefits described in the tables above in the event of a termination
related to a change in control if their employment is terminated other than for
cause or if they terminate their employment for good reason, in each case within
a period commencing 90 days prior to and ending 24 months following a change in
control.

 

A change
in control includes the following events:

 

· 

The
 purchase of 25% or more of either the common stock or the combined voting
 power of the voting securities, the merger or consolidation of Entergy
 Corporation (unless Entergy Corporation's board members constitute at
 least a majority of the board members of the surviving
 entity);

 

· 

the
 merger or consolidation of Entergy Corporation (unless Entergy
 Corporation's board members constitute at least a majority of the board
 members of the surviving entity;

 

· 

the
 liquidation, dissolution or sale of all or substantially all of Entergy
 Corporation's assets; or

 

· 

a
 change in the composition of Entergy Corporation's board such that, during
 any two-year period, the individuals serving at the beginning of the
 period no longer constitute a majority of Entergy Corporation's board at
 the end of the period.

 

The
proposed separation of the non-utility nuclear business in a tax-free spin-off
to Entergy Corporation's shareholders does not constitute a "Change in Control"
for purposes of the System Executive Continuity Plan.

 

Entergy
Corporation may terminate a Named Executive Officer's employment for cause under
the System Executive Continuity Plan if he or she:

 

· 

fails
 to substantially perform his duties for a period of 30 days after
 receiving notice from the board;

 

· 

engages
 in conduct that is injurious to Entergy Corporation or any of its
 subsidiaries;

 

· 

is
 convicted or pleads guilty to a felony or other crime that materially and
 adversely affects his or her ability to perform his or her duties or
 Entergy Corporation's reputation;

 

· 

violates
 any agreement with Entergy Corporation or any of its subsidiaries;
 or

 

· 

discloses
 any of Entergy Corporation's confidential information without
 authorization.

 

A Named
Executive Officer may terminate employment with Entergy Corporation for good
reason under the System Executive Continuity Plan if, without the Named
Executive Officer's consent:

 

· 

the
 nature or status of his or her duties and responsibilities is
 substantially altered or reduced compared to the period prior to the
 change in control;

 

· 

his
 or her salary is reduced by 5% or
more;

 

· 

he
 or she is required to be based outside of the continental United States at
 somewhere other than the primary work location prior to the change in
 control;

 

· 

any
 of his or her compensation plans are discontinued without an equitable
 replacement;

 

· 

his
 or her benefits or number of vacation days are substantially reduced;
 or

 

 

467

 

 

· 

his
 or her employment is purported to be terminated other than in accordance
 with the System Executive Continuity
Plan.

 

In
addition to participation in the System Executive Continuity Plan, upon the
completion of a transaction resulting in a change in control of Entergy
Corporation, benefits already accrued under the System Executive Retirement Plan
and Pension Equalization Plan, if any, will become fully vested if the executive
is involuntarily terminated without cause or terminates employment for good
reason. Any awards granted under the Equity Ownership Plan will become fully
vested upon a Change in Control without regard to whether the executive is
involuntarily terminated without cause or terminates employment for good
reason.

 

Under
certain circumstances, the payments and benefits received by a Named Executive
Officer pursuant to the System Executive Continuity Plan may be forfeited and,
in certain cases, subject to repayment. Benefits are no longer payable under the
System Executive Continuity Plan, and unvested performance units under the
Performance Unit Program are subject to forfeiture, if the
executive:

 

· 

accepts
 employment with Entergy Corporation or any of its
 subsidiaries;

 

· 

elects
 to receive the benefits of another severance or separation
 program;

 

· 

removes,
 copies or fails to return any property belonging to Entergy Corporation or
 any of its subsidiaries;

 

· 

discloses
 non-public data or information concerning Entergy Corporation or any of
 its subsidiaries; or

 

· 

violates
 their non-competition provision, which generally runs for two years but
 extends to three years if permissible under applicable
 law.

 

Furthermore,
if the executive discloses non-public data or information concerning Entergy
Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or violates their non-competition
provision, he or she will be required to repay any benefits previously received
under the System Executive Continuity Plan.

 

Termination
for Cause

If a
Named Executive Officer's employment is terminated for "cause" (as defined in
the System Executive Continuity Plans and described above under "Termination
Related to a Change in Control"), he or she is generally entitled to the same
compensation and separation benefits described below under "Voluntary
Resignation."

Voluntary
Resignation

If a
Named Executive Officer voluntarily resigns from an Entergy System company
employer, he or she is entitled to all accrued benefits and compensation as of
the separation date, including qualified pension benefits (if any) and other
post-employment benefits on terms consistent with those generally available to
other salaried employees. In the case of voluntary resignation, the
officer would forfeit all unvested stock options and restricted units as well as
any perquisites to which he or she is entitled as an officer. In
addition, the officer would forfeit, except as described below, his or her right
to receive incentive payments under the Performance Unit Program or the
Executive Incentive Plan. If the officer resigns after the completion
of an Executive Incentive Plan or Performance Unit Program performance period,
he or she could receive a payout under the Performance Unit Program based on the
outcome of the performance cycle and could, at the Entergy Corporation's
discretion, receive an annual incentive payment under the Executive Incentive
Plan. Any vested stock options held by the officer as of the
separation date will expire the earlier of ten years from date of grant or 90
days from the last day of active employment.

Retirement

Under
Entergy Corporation's retirement plans, a Named Executive Officer's eligibility
for retirement benefits is based on a combination of age and years of
service. Normal retirement is defined as age 65. Early
retirement is defined under the qualified retirement plan as minimum age 55 with
10 years of service and in the case of the System Executive Retirement Plan and
the supplemental credited service under the Pension Equalization Plan, the
consent of Entergy System company employer.

 

 

468

 

 

Upon a
Named Executive Officer's retirement, he or she is generally entitled to all
accrued benefits and compensation as of the separation date, including qualified
pension benefits and other post-employment benefits consistent with those
generally available to salaried employees. The annual incentive
payment under the Executive Incentive Plan is pro-rated based on the actual
number of days employed during the performance year in which the retirement date
occurs. Similarly, payments under the Performance Unit Program are
pro-rated based on the actual number of days employed, in each outstanding
performance cycle, in which the retirement date occurs. In each case,
payments are delivered at the conclusion of each annual or performance cycle,
consistent with the timing of payments to active participants in the Executive
Incentive Plan and the Performance Unit Program, respectively.

Unvested
stock options issued under the Equity Ownership Plan vest on the retirement date
and expire ten years from the grant date of the options. Any
restricted units held (other than those issued under the Performance Unit
Program) by the executive upon his or her retirement are forfeited, and
perquisites (other than short-term financial counseling services) are not
available following the separation date.

Disability

If a Named Executive Officer's
employment is terminated due to disability, he or she generally is entitled to
the same compensation and separation benefits described above under
"Retirement," except that restricted units may be subject to specific disability
benefits (as noted, where applicable, in the tables above).

Death

If a
Named Executive Officer dies while actively employed by an Entergy System
company employer, he or she generally is entitled to the same compensation and
separation benefits described above under "Retirement," except
that:

· 

all
 unvested stock options granted prior to January 1, 2007 are
 forfeited;

· 

vested
 stock options will expire the earlier of ten years from the grant date or
 three years following the executive's
death;

· 

restricted
 units may be subject to specific death benefits (as noted, where
 applicable, in the tables above).

 

469

 

 

Compensation
of Directors

 

For information regarding compensation
of the directors of Entergy Corporation, see the Proxy Statement under the
heading "Director Compensation", which information is incorporated herein by
reference. The Boards of Directors of Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf
States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans
and Entergy Texas are comprised solely of employee directors who receive no
compensation for service as directors.

Item
12. 
Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Entergy Corporation owns 100% of the
outstanding common stock of registrants Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States
Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans and
Entergy Texas. The information with respect to persons known by
Entergy Corporation to be beneficial owners of more than 5% of Entergy
Corporation's outstanding common stock is included under the heading
"Stockholders Who Own at Least Five Percent" in the Proxy Statement, which
information is incorporated herein by reference. The registrants know
of no contractual arrangements that may, at a subsequent date, result in a
change in control of any of the registrants.

The following table sets forth the
beneficial ownership of Common Stock of Entergy Corporation and stock-based
units as of December 31, 2009 for all directors and Named Executive
Officers. Unless otherwise noted, each person had sole voting and
investment power over the number of shares of Common Stock and stock-based units
of Entergy Corporation set forth across from his or her name.

 

Name

 
 

 

Shares
 
(1)

 
 

Options
 Exercisable

Within
 60 Days

 
 

 

Stock
 Units 
(2)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 Corporation

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Maureen
 S. Bateman*

 
 

6,700

 
 

-

 
 

7,200

W.
 Frank Blount*

 
 

12,234

 
 

-

 
 

17,600

Leo
 P. Denault**

 
 

7,543

 
 

276,619

 
 

-

Gary
 W. Edwards*

 
 

800

 
 

-

 
 

4,831

Alexis
 Herman*

 
 

3,900

 
 

-

 
 

4,800

Donald
 C. Hintz*

 
 

7,755

 
 

260,000

 
 

5,200

J.
 Wayne Leonard***

 
 

257,875

 
 

1,864,733

 
 

2,842

Stuart
 L. Levenick*

 
 

2,600

 
 

-

 
 

3,031

Stewart
 C. Myers*

 
 

138

 
 

-

 
 

-

James
 R. Nichols* 
(3)

 
 

9,894

 
 

-

 
 

18,626

William
 A. Percy, II*

 
 

2,650

 
 

-

 
 

10,754

Mark
 T. Savoff**

 
 

831

 
 

144,800

 
 

240

Richard
 J. Smith**

 
 

29,381

 
 

415,668

 
 

-

W.
 J. Tauzin*

 
 

2,500

 
 

-

 
 

2,893

Gary
 J. Taylor**

 
 

1,394

 
 

279,833

 
 

-

Steven
 V. Wilkinson*

 
 

3,655

 
 

-

 
 

4,427

All
 directors and executive

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 officers
 as a group (21 persons)

 
 

354,139

 
 

3,831,922

 
 

82,444

 

470

 

 

 

Name

 
 

 

Shares
 
(1)

 
 

Options
 Exercisable

Within
 60 Days

 
 

 

Stock
 Units 
(2)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 Arkansas

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.**

 
 

658

 
 

34,200

 
 

-

Leo
 P. Denault***

 
 

7,543

 
 

276,619

 
 

-

J.
 Wayne Leonard**

 
 

257,875

 
 

1,864,733

 
 

2,842

Hugh
 T. McDonald***

 
 

8,304

 
 

70,189

 
 

-

Mark
 T. Savoff*

 
 

831

 
 

144,800

 
 

240

Richard
 J. Smith**

 
 

29,381

 
 

415,668

 
 

-

Gary
 J. Taylor*

 
 

1,394

 
 

279,833

 
 

-

All
 directors and executive

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 officers
 as a group (11 persons)

 
 

309,617

 
 

3,642,111

 
 

3,082

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 Gulf States Louisiana

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.**

 
 

658

 
 

34,200

 
 

-

E.
 Renae Conley***

 
 

12,388

 
 

60,317

 
 

-

Leo
 P. Denault***

 
 

7,543

 
 

276,619

 
 

-

J.
 Wayne Leonard**

 
 

257,875

 
 

1,864,733

 
 

2,842

Mark
 T. Savoff*

 
 

831

 
 

144,800

 
 

240

Richard
 J. Smith**

 
 

29,381

 
 

415,668

 
 

-

Gary
 J. Taylor*

 
 

1,394

 
 

279,833

 
 

-

All
 directors and executive

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 officers
 as a group (11 persons)

 
 

313,701

 
 

3,632,239

 
 

3,082

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 Louisiana

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.**

 
 

658

 
 

34,200

 
 

-

E.
 Renae Conley***

 
 

12,388

 
 

60,317

 
 

-

Leo
 P. Denault***

 
 

7,543

 
 

276,619

 
 

-

J.
 Wayne Leonard**

 
 

257,875

 
 

1,864,733

 
 

2,842

Mark
 T. Savoff*

 
 

831

 
 

144,800

 
 

240

Richard
 J. Smith**

 
 

29,381

 
 

415,668

 
 

-

Gary
 J. Taylor*

 
 

1,394

 
 

279,833

 
 

-

All
 directors and executive

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 officers
 as a group (11 persons)

 
 

313,701

 
 

3,632,239

 
 

3,082

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 Mississippi

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.**

 
 

658

 
 

34,200

 
 

-

Leo
 P. Denault***

 
 

7,543

 
 

276,619

 
 

-

Haley
 R. Fisackerly***

 
 

1,645

 
 

8,100

 
 

-

J.
 Wayne Leonard**

 
 

257,875

 
 

1,864,733

 
 

2,842

Mark
 T. Savoff*

 
 

831

 
 

144,800

 
 

240

Richard
 J. Smith**

 
 

29,381

 
 

415,668

 
 

-

Gary
 J. Taylor*

 
 

1,394

 
 

279,833

 
 

-

All
 directors and executive

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 officers
 as a group (11 persons)

 
 

302,958

 
 

3,580,022

 
 

3,082

 

471

 

 

 

Name

 
 

 

Shares
 
(1)

 
 

Options
 Exercisable

Within
 60 Days

 
 

 

Stock
 Units 
(2)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 New Orleans

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.**

 
 

658

 
 

34,200

 
 

-

Leo
 P. Denault**

 
 

7,543

 
 

276,619

 
 

-

J.
 Wayne Leonard**

 
 

257,875

 
 

1,864,733

 
 

2,842

Richard
 J. Smith**

 
 

29,381

 
 

415,668

 
 

-

Gary
 J. Taylor*

 
 

1,394

 
 

279,833

 
 

-

Roderick
 K. West***

 
 

1,607

 
 

21,001

 
 

-

Sherri
 Winslow*

 
 

198

 
 

4,167

 
 

-

All
 directors and executive

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 officers
 as a group (12 persons)

 
 

303,118

 
 

3,597,090

 
 

3,082

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 Texas

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.**

 
 

658

 
 

34,200

 
 

-

Leo
 P. Denault***

 
 

7,543

 
 

276,619

 
 

-

Joseph
 F. Domino***

 
 

4,652

 
 

56,167

 
 

-

J.
 Wayne Leonard**

 
 

257,875

 
 

1,864,733

 
 

2,842

Mark
 T. Savoff*

 
 

831

 
 

144,800

 
 

240

Richard
 J. Smith**

 
 

29,381

 
 

415,668

 
 

-

Gary
 J. Taylor*

 
 

1,394

 
 

279,833

 
 

-

All
 directors and executive

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 officers
 as a group (11 persons)

 
 

305,965

 
 

3,628,089

 
 

3,082

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

*

Director
 of the respective Company

**

Named
 Executive Officer of the respective Company

***

Director
 and Named Executive Officer of the respective
 Company

(1)

The
 number of shares of Entergy Corporation common stock owned by each
 individual and by all directors and executive officers as a group does not
 exceed one percent of the outstanding Entergy Corporation common
 stock.

(2)

Represents
 the balances of phantom units each executive holds under the defined
 contribution restoration plan and the deferral provisions of the Equity
 Ownership Plan. These units will be paid out in either Entergy
 Corporation Common Stock or cash equivalent to the value of one share of
 Entergy Corporation Common Stock per unit on the date of payout, including
 accrued dividends. The deferral period is determined by the
 individual and is at least two years from the award of the
 bonus. For directors of Entergy Corporation the phantom units
 are issued under the Service Recognition Program for Outside
 Directors. All non-employee directors are credited with units
 for each year of service on the Board. In addition, Messrs.
 Edwards, Hintz and Percy are deferring receipt of their quarterly stock
 grants. The deferred shares will be settled in units at the end
 of the deferral period.

(3)

Excludes
 4,059 shares that are owned by a charitable foundation that Mr. Nichols
 controls.

 
 

 
 

 

 

472

 

 

Equity
Compensation Plan Information

The following table summarizes the
equity compensation plan information as of December 31, 2009. Information
is included for equity compensation plans approved by the stockholders and
equity compensation plans not approved by the stockholders.

 

 

 

 

Plan

 
 

 

Number
 of Securities to

be
 Issued Upon Exercise

of
 Outstanding Options

(a)

 
 

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

(b)

 
 

Number
 of Securities

Remaining
 Available for

Future
 Issuance (excluding securities reflected in column (a))

(c)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Equity
 compensation plans

 approved
 by security holders 
(1)

 
 

 

9,665,002

 
 

 

$74.68

 
 

 

3,276,876

Equity
 compensation plans not

 approved
 by security holders
(2)

 
 

 

1,656,069

 
 

 

$40.22

 
 

 

-

Total

 
 

11,321,071

 
 

$69.64

 
 

3,276,876

(1)

Includes
 the Equity Ownership Plan, which was approved by the shareholders on May
 15, 1998. The 2007 Equity Ownership and Long Term Cash
 Incentive Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries ("2007 Plan"), was
 approved by Entergy Corporation shareholders on May 12,
 2006. 7,000,000 shares of Entergy Corporation common stock can
 be issued from the 2007 Plan, with no more than 2,000,000 shares available
 for non-option grants. The Equity Ownership Plan and the 2007
 Plan (the "Plans") are administered by the Personnel Committee of the
 Board of Directors (other than with respect to awards granted to
 non-employee directors, which awards are administered by the entire Board
 of Directors). Eligibility under the Plans is limited to the
 non-employee directors and to the officers and employees of an Entergy
 System employer and any corporation 80% or more of whose stock (based on
 voting power) or value is owned, directly or indirectly, by the
 Company. The Plans provide for the issuance of stock options,
 restricted shares, equity awards (units whose value is related to the
 value of shares of the Common Stock but do not represent actual shares of
 Common Stock), performance awards (performance shares or units valued by
 reference to shares of Common Stock or performance units valued by
 reference to financial measures or property other than Common Stock) and
 other stock-based awards.

(2)

Entergy
 has a Board-approved stock-based compensation plan. However, effective May
 9, 2003, the Board has directed that no further awards be issued under
 that plan.

 

 

473

 

 

Item
13. 
Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions and Director
Independence

For information regarding certain
relationships, related transactions and director independence of Entergy
Corporation, see the Proxy Statement under the headings "Corporate Governance -
Director Independence" and "Transactions with Related Persons," which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

Since
December 31, 2007, none of the Subsidiaries or any of their affiliates has
participated in any transaction involving an amount in excess of $120,000 in
which any director or executive officer of any of the Subsidiaries, any nominee
for director, or any immediate family member of the foregoing had a material
interest as contemplated by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K ("Related Party
Transactions").

Entergy
Corporation's Board of Directors has adopted written policies and procedures for
the review, approval or ratification of Related Party
Transactions. Under these policies and procedures, the Corporate
Governance Committee, or a subcommittee of the Board of Directors of Entergy
Corporation comprised of independent directors, reviews the transaction and
either approves or rejects the transaction after taking into account the
following factors:

· 

Whether
 the proposed transaction is on terms at least as favorable to Entergy
 Corporation or the subsidiary as those achievable with an unaffiliated
 third party;

· 

Size
 of transaction and amount of
consideration;

· 

Nature
 of the interest;

· 

Whether
 the transaction involves a conflict of
interest;

· 

Whether
 the transaction involves services available from unaffiliated third
 parties; and

· 

Any
 other factors that the Corporate Governance Committee or subcommittee
 deems relevant.

The
policy does not apply to (a) compensation and Related Party Transactions
involving a director or an executive officer solely resulting from that person's
service as a director or employment with the Company so long as the compensation
is reported in the Company's filings with the SEC, (b) transactions involving
the rendering of services as a public utility at rates or charges fixed in
conformity with law or governmental authority or (c) any other categories of
transactions currently or in the future excluded from the reporting requirements
of Item 404(a) of Regulation SK.

None of
the Subsidiaries are listed issuers. As previously noted, the Boards
of Directors of the Subsidiaries are comprised solely of employee
directors. None of the Boards of Directors of any of the Subsidiaries
has any committees.

 

474

 

Item 14. 
Principal
Accountant Fees and Services
 
(Entergy Corporation, Entergy
Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi,
Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy)

Aggregate fees billed to Entergy
Corporation (consolidated), Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana,
Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and
System Energy for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 by Deloitte &
Touche LLP, the member firms of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, and their respective
affiliates (collectively, "Deloitte & Touche"), which includes Deloitte
Consulting were as follows:

 
 

 
 

2009

 
 

2008

Entergy
 Corporation (consolidated)

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Audit
 Fees

 
 

$9,175,534

 
 

$10,587,151

Audit-Related
 Fees (a)

 
 

892,150

 
 

778,689

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Total
 audit and audit-related fees

 
 

10,067,684

 
 

11,365,840

Tax
 Fees (b)

 
 

-

 
 

-

All
 Other Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 Total
 Fees (c)

 
 

$10,067,684

 
 

$11,365,840

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 Arkansas

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Audit
 Fees

 
 

$924,277

 
 

$885,674

Audit-Related
 Fees (a)

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Total
 audit and audit-related fees

 
 

924,277

 
 

885,674

Tax
 Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

All
 Other Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 Total
 Fees (c)

 
 

$924,277

 
 

$885,674

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 Gulf States Louisiana

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Audit
 Fees

 
 

$871,277

 
 

$1,232,594

Audit-Related
 Fees (a)

 
 

95,000

 
 

200,000

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Total
 audit and audit-related fees

 
 

966,277

 
 

1,432,594

Tax
 Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

All
 Other Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 Total
 Fees (c)

 
 

$966,277

 
 

$1,432,594

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 Louisiana

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Audit
 Fees

 
 

$881,277

 
 

$1,091,094

Audit-Related
 Fees (a)

 
 

95,000

 
 

190,000

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Total
 audit and audit-related fees

 
 

976,277

 
 

1,281,094

Tax
 Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

All
 Other Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 Total
 Fees (c)

 
 

$976,277

 
 

$1,281,094

 

475

 

 
 

 
 

2009

 
 

2008

Entergy
 Mississippi

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Audit
 Fees

 
 

$881,277

 
 

$880,674

Audit-Related
 Fees (a)

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Total
 audit and audit-related fees

 
 

881,277

 
 

880,674

Tax
 Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

All
 Other Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 Total
 Fees (c)

 
 

$881,277

 
 

$880,674

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 New Orleans

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Audit
 Fees

 
 

$777,218

 
 

$806,658

Audit-Related
 Fees (a)

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Total
 audit and audit-related fees

 
 

777,218

 
 

806,658

Tax
 Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

All
 Other Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 Total
 Fees (c)

 
 

$777,218

 
 

$806,658

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Entergy
 Texas

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Audit
 Fees

 
 

$1,896,277

 
 

$1,129,174

Audit-Related
 Fees (a)

 
 

200,000

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Total
 audit and audit-related fees

 
 

2,096,277

 
 

1,129,174

Tax
 Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

All
 Other Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 Total
 Fees (c)

 
 

$2,096,277

 
 

$1,129,174

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

System
 Energy

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Audit
 Fees

 
 

$826,828

 
 

$836,231

Audit-Related
 Fees (a)

 
 

103,230

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Total
 audit and audit-related fees

 
 

930,058

 
 

836,231

Tax
 Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

All
 Other Fees

 
 

-

 
 

-

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 Total
 Fees (c)

 
 

$930,058

 
 

$836,231

(a)

Includes
 fees for employee benefit plan audits, consultation on financial
 accounting and reporting, and other attestation
 services.

(b)

Includes
 fees for tax return review and tax compliance
 assistance.

(c)

100%
 of fees paid in 2009 and 2008 were pre-approved by the Entergy Corporation
 Audit Committee.

 

476

 

Entergy
Audit Committee Guidelines for Pre-approval of Independent Auditor
Services

The Audit Committee has adopted the
following guidelines regarding the engagement of Entergy's independent auditor
to perform services for Entergy:

1.

The
 independent auditor will provide the Audit Committee, for approval, an
 annual engagement letter outlining the scope of services proposed to be
 performed during the fiscal year, including audit services and other
 permissible non-audit services (e.g. audit-related services, tax services,
 and all other services).

2.

For
 other permissible services not included in the engagement letter, Entergy
 management will submit a description of the proposed service, including a
 budget estimate, to the Audit Committee for
 pre-approval. Management and the independent auditor must agree
 that the requested service is consistent with the SEC's rules on auditor
 independence prior to submission to the Audit Committee. The
 Audit Committee, at its discretion, will pre-approve permissible services
 and has established the following additional guidelines for permissible
 non-audit services provided by the independent auditor:

·
 
Aggregate
 non-audit service fees are targeted at fifty percent or less of the
 approved audit service fee.

·
 
All
 other services should only be provided by the independent auditor if it is
 the only qualified provider of that service or if the Audit Committee
 specifically requests the service.

3.

The
 Audit Committee will be informed quarterly as to the status of
 pre-approved services actually provided by the independent
 auditor.

4.

To
 ensure prompt handling of unexpected matters, the Audit Committee
 delegates to the Audit Committee Chair or its designee the authority to
 approve permissible services and fees. The Audit Committee
 Chair or designee will report action taken to the Audit Committee at the
 next scheduled Audit Committee meeting.

5.

The
 Vice President and General Auditor will be responsible for tracking all
 independent auditor fees and will report quarterly to the Audit
 Committee.

 

 

477

 

PART
IV

Item
15. 
Exhibits and Financial
Statement Schedules

(a)1.

Financial
 Statements and Independent Auditors' Reports for Entergy, Entergy
 Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy
 Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy are
 listed in the Table of Contents.

 
 

 
 

(a)2.

Financial
 Statement Schedules

 

Report
 of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (see page
 489)

 

Financial
 Statement Schedules are listed in the Index to Financial Statement
 Schedules (see page S-1)

 
 

 
 

(a)3.

Exhibits

 

Exhibits
 for Entergy, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy
 Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and
 System Energy are listed in the Exhibit Index (see page
 E-1). Each management contract or compensatory plan or
 arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit hereto is identified as
 such by footnote in the Exhibit
Index.

 

-

 

478

 

ENTERGY
CORPORATION

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed
to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries
thereof.

ENTERGY
 CORPORATION

 

 

By 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

 

Date:
 February 24, 2010

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be
deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company and
any subsidiaries thereof.

Signature

Title

Date

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and

Chief
 Accounting Officer

(Principal
 Accounting Officer)

February
 24, 2010

J. Wayne
Leonard (Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director; Principal
Executive Officer); Leo P. Denault (Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer; Principal Financial Officer); Maureen S. Bateman, W. Frank Blount, Gary
W. Edwards, Alexis M. Herman, Donald C. Hintz, Stuart L. Levenick, Stewart C.
Myers, James R. Nichols, William A. Percy, II, W. J. Tauzin, and Steven V.
Wilkinson (Directors).

By: 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting,
 Jr.
 

(Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr., Attorney-in-fact)

February
 24, 2010

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

479

 

ENTERGY
ARKANSAS, INC.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed
to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries
thereof.

ENTERGY
 ARKANSAS, INC.

 

 

By 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

 

Date:
 February 24, 2010

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be
deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company and
any subsidiaries thereof.

Signature

Title

Date

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and

Chief
 Accounting Officer

(Principal
 Accounting Officer and

acting
 Principal Financial Officer)

February
 24, 2010

Hugh T.
McDonald (Chairman of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer, and
Director; Principal Executive Officer); Leo P. Denault, Mark T. Savoff, and Gary
J. Taylor (Directors).

By: 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting,
 Jr.
 

(Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr., Attorney-in-fact)

February
 24, 2010

 

 

 

480

 

ENTERGY
GULF STATES LOUISIANA, L.L.C.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed
to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries
thereof.

ENTERGY
 GULF STATES LOUISIANA, L.L.C.

 

 

By 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

 

Date:
 February 24, 2010

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be
deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company and
any subsidiaries thereof.

Signature

Title

Date

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and

Chief
 Accounting Officer

(Principal
 Accounting Officer and

acting
 Principal Financial Officer)

February
 24, 2010

E. Renae
Conley (Chair of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director;
Principal Executive Officer); Leo P. Denault, Mark T. Savoff, and Gary J. Taylor
(Directors).

By: 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting,
 Jr.
 

(Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr., Attorney-in-fact)

February
 24, 2010

 

 

 

481

 

ENTERGY
LOUISIANA, LLC

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed
to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries
thereof.

ENTERGY
 LOUISIANA, LLC

 

 

By 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

 

Date:
 February 24, 2010

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be
deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company and
any subsidiaries thereof.

Signature

Title

Date

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and

Chief
 Accounting Officer

(Principal
 Accounting Officer and

acting
 Principal Financial Officer)

February
 24, 2010

E. Renae
Conley (Chair of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director;
Principal Executive Officer); Leo P. Denault, Mark T. Savoff, and Gary J. Taylor
(Directors).

By: 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting,
 Jr.
 

(Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr., Attorney-in-fact)

February
 24, 2010

 

 

 

482

 

ENTERGY
MISSISSIPPI, INC.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed
to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries
thereof.

ENTERGY
 MISSISSIPPI, INC.

 

 

By 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

 

Date:
 February 24, 2010

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be
deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company and
any subsidiaries thereof.

Signature

Title

Date

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and

Chief
 Accounting Officer

(Principal
 Accounting Officer and

acting
 Principal Financial Officer)

February
 24, 2010

Haley R.
Fisackerly (Chairman of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer, and
Director; Principal Executive Officer); Leo P. Denault, Mark T. Savoff, and Gary
J. Taylor (Directors).

By: 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting,
 Jr.
 

(Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr., Attorney-in-fact)

February
 24, 2010

 

 

 

483

 

ENTERGY
NEW ORLEANS, INC.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed
to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries
thereof.

ENTERGY
 NEW ORLEANS, INC.

 

 

By 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

 

Date:
 February 24, 2010

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be
deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company and
any subsidiaries thereof.

Signature

Title

Date

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and

Chief
 Accounting Officer

(Principal
 Accounting Officer and

acting
 Principal Financial Officer)

February
 24, 2010

Roderick
K. West (Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director; Principal
Executive Officer); Gary J. Taylor, and Sherri Winslow (Directors).

By: 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting,
 Jr.
 

(Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr., Attorney-in-fact)

February
 24, 2010

 

 

 

484

 

ENTERGY
TEXAS, INC.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed
to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries
thereof.

ENTERGY
 TEXAS, INC.

 

 

By 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

 

Date:
 February 24, 2010

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be
deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company and
any subsidiaries thereof.

Signature

Title

Date

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and

Chief
 Accounting Officer

(Principal
 Accounting Officer and

acting
 Principal Financial Officer)

February
 24, 2010

Joseph F.
Domino (Chairman of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director;
Principal Executive Officer); Leo P. Denault, Mark T. Savoff, and Gary J. Taylor
(Directors).

By: 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting,
 Jr.
 

(Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr., Attorney-in-fact)

February
 24, 2010

 

 

 

485

 

SYSTEM
ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section
13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized. The signature of the undersigned company shall be deemed
to relate only to matters having reference to such company and any subsidiaries
thereof.

SYSTEM
 ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.

 

 

By 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

 

Date:
 February 24, 2010

Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated. The signature of each of the undersigned shall be
deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the above-named company and
any subsidiaries thereof.

Signature

Title

Date

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 

Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr.

Senior
 Vice President and

Chief
 Accounting Officer

(Principal
 Accounting Officer)

February
 24, 2010

John T.
Herron (Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director; Principal
Executive Officer); Wanda C. Curry (Vice President, Chief Financial Officer -
Nuclear Operations; Principal Financial Officer); Leo P. Denault and Steven C.
McNeal (Directors).

By: 
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting,
 Jr.
 

(Theodore
 H. Bunting, Jr., Attorney-in-fact)

February
 24, 2010

 

 

 

486

 

EXHIBIT 23(a)

CONSENTS
 OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in Post-Effective Amendments No. 3 and
5A on Form S-8 and their related prospectuses to Registration Statement No.
33-54298 on Form S-4 and Registration Statements Nos. 333-55692, 333-68950,
333-75097, 333-90914, 333-98179, 333-140183, and 333-142055 on Form S-8 of our
reports dated February 24, 2010, relating to the consolidated financial
statements of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries (which report expresses an
unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to the
adoption of a new accounting standard regarding non-controlling interests),
consolidated financial statement schedule, and the effectiveness of Entergy
Corporation and Subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting,
appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Entergy Corporation and
Subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2009.

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No.
333-159157 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 24, 2010, relating to the
financial statements and financial statement schedule of Entergy Arkansas, Inc.,
and the effectiveness of Entergy Arkansas, Inc.’s internal control over
financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Entergy
Arkansas, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2009.

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No.
333-156435 on Form S-3 and Registration Statement No. 333-153623 on Form S-4 of
our reports dated February 24, 2010, relating to the financial statements of
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C. (which report expresses an unqualified
opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the effects of the
distribution of certain assets and liabilities to Entergy Texas, Inc. and
Subsidiaries as part of a jurisdictional separation plan), financial statement
schedule, and the effectiveness of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.’s
internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C. for the year ended
December 31, 2009.

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No.
333-159158 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 24, 2010, relating to the
financial statements and financial statement schedule of Entergy Louisiana, LLC,
and the effectiveness of Entergy Louisiana, LLC’s internal control over
financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Entergy
Louisiana, LLC for the year ended December 31, 2009.

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements No.
333-159164 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 24, 2010, relating to the
financial statements and financial statement schedule of Entergy Mississippi,
Inc., and the effectiveness of Entergy Mississippi, Inc.’s internal control over
financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Entergy Mississippi, Inc. for the year ended December 31,
2009.

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No.
333-155584 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 24, 2010, relating to
the financial statements and financial statement schedule of Entergy New
Orleans, Inc., and the effectiveness of Entergy New Orleans, Inc.’s internal
control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
of Entergy New Orleans, Inc. for the year ended December 31,
2009.

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No.
333-153442 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 24, 2010, relating to the
consolidated financial statements of Entergy Texas, Inc. and Subsidiaries (which
report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph
regarding the effects of distribution of certain assets and liabilities from
Entergy Gulf States, Inc. to Entergy Texas, Inc. and Subsidiaries as part of the
jurisdictional separation plan), financial statement schedule, and the
effectiveness of Entergy Texas, Inc. and Subsidiaries’ internal control over
financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Entergy
Texas, Inc. and Subsidiaries for the year ended December 31,
2009.

 

487

 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No.
333-156718 on Form S-3 of our reports dated February 24, 2010, relating to the
financial statements of System Energy Resources, Inc., and the effectiveness of
System Energy Resources, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting,
appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of System Energy Resources, Inc.
for the year ended December 31, 2009.

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February
24, 2010

 

488

 

 

 

 
 

REPORT
 OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING
FIRM

To the
Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Entergy
Corporation and Subsidiaries

Entergy
Arkansas, Inc.

Entergy
Mississippi, Inc.

Entergy
New Orleans, Inc.

Entergy
Texas, Inc. and Subsidiaries

To the
Board of Directors and Members of

Entergy
Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

Entergy
Louisiana, LLC

 

We have
audited the consolidated financial statements of Entergy Corporation and
Subsidiaries (the “Corporation”) and Entergy Texas, Inc. and Subsidiaries
(“ETI”), and we have also audited the financial statements of Entergy Arkansas,
Inc., Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C., Entergy Louisiana, LLC, Entergy
Mississippi, Inc., and Entergy New Orleans, Inc. (collectively the “Companies”)
as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2009, and the Corporation’s, ETI's, and the
respective Companies’ internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, and have issued our reports thereon dated
February 24, 2010; such reports are included elsewhere in this Form
10-K. Our report on the consolidated financial statements of the
Corporation expressed an unqualified opinion and included an explanatory
paragraph relating to the adoption of a new accounting standard regarding
non-controlling interests. Our report on the financial statements of
Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C. expressed an unqualified opinion and
included an explanatory paragraph regarding the effects of the distribution of
certain assets and liabilities to ETI as part of a jurisdictional separation
plan. Our report on the consolidated financial statements of ETI
expressed an unqualified opinion and included an explanatory paragraph regarding
the effects of the distribution of certain assets and liabilities from Entergy
Gulf States, Inc. to ETI as part of a jurisdictional separation plan. Our audits
also included the financial statement schedules of the Corporation, ETI, and the
respective Companies listed in Item 15. These financial statement schedules
are the responsibility of the Corporation’s, ETI’s, and the respective
Companies’ management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our
audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.

 

DELOITTE
& TOUCHE LLP

New
Orleans, Louisiana

February 24,
2010

 

 

 

489

 

 

(Page
left blank intentionally)

 

-

 

490

 

INDEX
TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

Schedule

 
 

Page

 
 

 
 

 
 

II

Valuation
 and Qualifying Accounts 2009, 2008 and 2007:

 
 

 
 

 Entergy
 Corporation and Subsidiaries

S-2

 
 

 Entergy
 Arkansas, Inc.

S-3

 
 

 Entergy
 Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.

S-4

 
 

 Entergy
 Louisiana, LLC

S-5

 
 

 Entergy
 Mississippi, Inc.

S-6

 
 

 Entergy
 New Orleans, Inc.

S-7

 
 

 Entergy
 Texas, Inc. and Subsidiaries

S-8

Schedules other than those listed above
are omitted because they are not required, not applicable, or the required
information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.

Columns have been omitted from
schedules filed because the information is not applicable.

S-1

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE
 II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

 

Years
 Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Column
 A

 

Column
 B

 

 

Column
 C

 

 

Column
 D

 

 

Column
 E

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Other

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Additions

 

 

Changes

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
Charged to 

 

 

Deductions

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Balance
 at

 

 

 
Income or 

 

 

from

 

 

Balance

 

 
 

 

Beginning

 

 

Regulatory
 

 

 

Provisions

 

 

at
 End

 

Description

 

of
 Period

 

 

Assets

 

 

 

(1)

 

 

of
 Period

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2009

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

25,610

 

 

$

2,021

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

27,631

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

147,452

 

 

$

52,050

 

 

$

58,187

 

 

$

141,315

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2008

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

25,789

 

 

$

(179

)

 

$

-

 

 

$

25,610

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

133,406

 

 

$

56,826

 

 

$

42,780

 

 

$

147,452

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2007

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

29,911

 

 

$

(4,122

)

 

$

-

 

 

$

25,789

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

97,287

 

 

$

63,262

 

 

$

27,143

 

 

$

133,406

 

___________

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Notes:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1)
 Deductions from provisions represent losses or expenses for which the
 respective provisions were

 

 

 

 

 

 
 created. In the case of the provision for doubtful accounts, such
 deductions are reduced by recoveries

 

 

 

 

 

 of
 amounts previously written off.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2)
 Accumulated provisions not deducted from assets includes provisions for
 property insurance, injuries and damages, environmental,

 

 and
 pension related items.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S-2

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 ARKANSAS, INC.

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE
 II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

 

Years
 Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Column
 A

 

Column
 B

 

 

Column
 C

 

 

Column
 D

 

 

Column
 E

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Other

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Additions

 

 

Changes

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Charged to

 

 

Deductions

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Balance
 at

 

 

Income
 or

 

 

from

 

 

Balance

 

 
 

 

Beginning

 

 

Regulatory

 

 

Provisions

 

 

at
 End

 

Description

 

of
 Period

 

 

Assets

 

 

 

(1)

 

 

of
 Period

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2009

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

19,882

 

 

$

1,971

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

21,853

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

15,925

 

 

$

17,076

 

 

$

19,784

 

 

$

13,217

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2008

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

16,649

 

 

$

3,233

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

19,882

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

14,414

 

 

$

1,397

 

 

$

(114

)

 

$

15,925

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2007

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

15,257

 

 

$

1,392

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

16,649

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

14,539

 

 

$

5,219

 

 

$

5,344

 

 

$

14,414

 

___________

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Notes:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1)
 Deductions from provisions represent losses or expenses for which the
 respective provisions were

 

 

 

 

 

 
 created. In the case of the provision for doubtful accounts, such
 deductions are reduced by recoveries

 

 

 

 

 

 of
 amounts previously written off.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2)
 Accumulated provisions not deducted from assets includes provisions for
 property insurance, injuries and damages, environmental,

 

 and
 pension related items.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S-3

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 GULF STATES LOUISIANA, L.L.C.

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE
 II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

 

Years
 Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Column
 A

 

Column
 B

 

 

Column
 C

 

 

Column
 D

 

 

Column
 E

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Other

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Additions

 

 

Changes

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
Charged to

 

 

Deductions

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Balance
 at

 

 

 
Income or

 

 

from

 

 

Balance

 

 
 

 

Beginning

 

 

Regulatory 

 

 

Provisions

 

 

at
 End

 

Description

 

of
 Period

 

 

Assets

 

 

 

(1)

 

 

of
 Period

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2009

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

1,230

 

 

$

5

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

1,235

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Not
 Deducted from Assets (2)

 

$

13,896

 

 

$

7,660

 

 

$

6,887

 

 

$

14,669

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2008

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

979

 

 

$

251

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

1,230

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Not
 Deducted from Assets (2)

 

$

11,887

 

 

$

20,059

 

 

$

18,050

 

 

$

13,896

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2007

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

759

 

 

$

220

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

979

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Not
 Deducted from Assets (2)

 

$

21,245

 

 

$

21,183

 

 

$

30,541

 

 

$

11,887

 

___________

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Notes:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1)
 Deductions from provisions represent losses or expenses for which the
 respective provisions were

 

 

 

 

 

 
 created. In the case of the provision for doubtful accounts, such
 deductions are reduced by recoveries

 

 

 

 

 

 of
 amounts previously written off.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2)
 Accumulated provisions not deducted from assets includes provisions for
 property insurance, injuries and damages, environmental,

 

 and
 pension related items.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S-4

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 LOUISIANA, LLC

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE
 II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

 

Years
 Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Column
 A

 

Column
 B

 

 

Column
 C

 

 

Column
 D

 

 

Column
 E

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Other

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Additions

 

 

Changes

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
Charged to 

 

 

Deductions

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Balance
 at

 

 

 
Income
 or

 

 

from

 

 

Balance

 

 
 

 

Beginning

 

 

Regulatory

 

 

Provisions

 

 

at
 End

 

Description

 

of
 Period

 

 

 Assets

 

 

 

(1)

 

 

of
 Period

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2009

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

1,698

 

 

$

(386

)

 

$

-

 

 

$

1,312

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

19,916

 

 

$

7,851

 

 

$

7,466

 

 

$

20,301

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2008

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

1,988

 

 

$

(290

)

 

$

-

 

 

$

1,698

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

18,405

 

 

$

17,450

 

 

$

15,939

 

 

$

19,916

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2007

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

1,856

 

 

$

132

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

1,988

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

23,798

 

 

$

22,910

 

 

$

28,303

 

 

$

18,405

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

___________

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Notes:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1)
 Deductions from provisions represent losses or expenses for which the
 respective provisions were

 

 

 

 

 

 
 created. In the case of the provision for doubtful accounts, such
 deductions are reduced by recoveries

 

 

 

 

 

 of
 amounts previously written off.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2)
 Accumulated provisions not deducted from assets includes provisions for
 property insurance, injuries and damages, environmental,

 

 and
 pension related items.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S-5

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 MISSISSIPPI, INC.

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE
 II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

 

Years
 Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Column
 A

 

Column
 B

 

 

Column
 C

 

 

Column
 D

 

 

Column
 E

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Other

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Additions

 

 

Changes

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
Charged to 

 

 

Deductions

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Balance
 at

 

 

 
Income
 or

 

 

from

 

 

Balance

 

 
 

 

Beginning

 

 

Regulatory

 

 

Provisions

 

 

at
 End

 

Description

 

of
 Period

 

 

 Assets

 

 

 

(1)

 

 

of
 Period

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2009

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

687

 

 

$

331

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

1,018

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

36,957

 

 

$

11,411

 

 

$

6,965

 

 

$

41,403

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2008

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

615

 

 

$

72

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

687

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

50,264

 

 

$

10,175

 

 

$

23,482

 

 

$

36,957

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2007

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

615

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

615

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

10,036

 

 

$

2,519

 

 

$

(37,709

)

 

$

50,264

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

___________

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Notes:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1)
 Deductions from provisions represent losses or expenses for which the
 respective provisions were

 

 

 

 

 

 
 created. In the case of the provision for doubtful accounts, such
 deductions are reduced by recoveries

 

 

 

 

 

 of
 amounts previously written off.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2)
 Accumulated provisions not deducted from assets includes provisions for
 property insurance, injuries and damages, environmental,

 

 and
 pension related items.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S-6

 

 

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 NEW ORLEANS, INC.

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE
 II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

 

Years
 Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Column
 A

 

Column
 B

 

 

Column
 C

 

 

Column
 D

 

 

Column
 E

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Other

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Additions

 

 

Changes

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Charged to

 

 

Deductions

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Balance
 at

 

 

Income
 or

 

 

from

 

 

Balance

 

 
 

 

Beginning

 

 

Regulatory

 

 

Provisions

 

 

at
 End

 

Description

 

of
 Period

 

 

Assets

 

 

 

(1)

 

 

of
 Period

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2009

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

1,112

 

 

$

54

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

1,166

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

10,609

 

 

$

2,187

 

 

$

(3,195

)

 

$

15,991

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2008

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

4,639

 

 

$

(3,527

)

 

$

-

 

 

$

1,112

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

14,329

 

 

$

1,507

 

 

$

5,227

 

 

$

10,609

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2007

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

10,563

 

 

$

(5,924

)

 

$

-

 

 

$

4,639

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

8,385

 

 

$

1,062

 

 

$

(4,882

)

 

$

14,329

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

___________

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Notes:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1)
 Deductions from provisions represent losses or expenses for which the
 respective provisions were

 

 

 

 

 

 
 created. In the case of the provision for doubtful accounts, such
 deductions are reduced by recoveries

 

 

 

 

 

 of
 amounts previously written off.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2)
 Accumulated provisions not deducted from assets includes provisions for
 property insurance, injuries and damages, environmental,

 

 and
 pension related items.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S-7

 

 

 

ENTERGY
 TEXAS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SCHEDULE
 II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

 

Years
 Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007

 

(In
 Thousands)

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Column
 A

 

Column
 B

 

 

Column
 C

 

 

Column
 D

 

 

Column
 E

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Other

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Additions

 

 

Changes

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Charged to

 

 

Deductions

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Balance
 at

 

 

Income
 or

 

 

from

 

 

Balance

 

 
 

 

Beginning

 

 

Regulatory

 

 

Provisions

 

 

at
 End

 

Description

 

of
 Period

 

 

Assets

 

 

 

(1)

 

 

of
 Period

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2009

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

1,001

 

 

$

(157

)

 

$

-

 

 

$

844

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

12,936

 

 

$

4,944

 

 

$

9,170

 

 

$

8,710

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2008

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

918

 

 

$

83

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

1,001

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

8,863

 

 

$

4,885

 

 

$

812

 

 

$

12,936

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Year
 ended December 31, 2007

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets--

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Doubtful
 Accounts

 

$

859

 

 

$

59

 

 

$

-

 

 

$

918

 

 Accumulated
 Provisions Not

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 Deducted
 from Assets (2)

 

$

9,431

 

 

$

5,311

 

 

$

5,879

 

 

$

8,863

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

___________

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Notes:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(1)
 Deductions from provisions represent losses or expenses for which the
 respective provisions were

 

 

 

 

 

 
 created. In the case of the provision for doubtful accounts, such
 deductions are reduced by recoveries

 

 

 

 

 

 of
 amounts previously written off.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2)
 Accumulated provisions not deducted from assets includes provisions for
 property insurance, injuries and damages, environmental,

 

 and
 pension related items.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S-8

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 EXHIBIT
 INDEX

The following exhibits indicated by an
asterisk preceding the exhibit number are filed herewith. The balance
of the exhibits have heretofore been filed with the SEC as the exhibits and in
the file numbers indicated and are incorporated herein by
reference. The exhibits marked with a (+) are management contracts or
compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed herewith and required to
be identified as such by Item 15 of Form 10-K. Reference is made to a
duplicate list of exhibits being filed as a part of this Form 10-K, which list,
prepared in accordance with Item 102 of Regulation S-T of the SEC,
immediately precedes the exhibits being physically filed with this
Form 10-K.

Some of
the agreements included or incorporated by reference as exhibits to this Form
10-K contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the
applicable agreement. These representations and warranties were made solely for
the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and (i) were not
intended to be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of
allocating the risk to one of the parties if those statements prove to be
inaccurate; (ii) may have been qualified in such agreement by disclosures that
were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the
applicable agreement; (iii) may apply contract standards of “materiality” that
are different from the standard of “materiality” under the applicable securities
laws; and (iv) were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such
other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement.

Entergy
acknowledges that, notwithstanding the inclusion of the foregoing cautionary
statements, it is responsible for considering whether additional specific
disclosures of material information regarding material contractual provisions
are required to make the statements in this Form 10-K not
misleading.

 
 

(2)
 Plan of Acquisition, Reorganization, Arrangement, Liquidation or
 Succession

 
 

Entergy
 Gulf States Louisiana

(a)
 --

Plan
 of Merger of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. effective December 31, 2007 (2(ii)
 to Form 8-K15D5 dated January 7, 2008 in
 333-148557).

 
 

(3)
 Articles of Incorporation and
By-laws

Entergy
Corporation

(a)
 1 --

Restated
 Certificate of Incorporation of Entergy Corporation dated October 10, 2006
 (3(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
 2006).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 2 --

By-Laws
 of Entergy Corporation as amended February 12, 2007, and as presently in
 effect (3(ii) to Form 8-K dated February 16, 2007 in
 1-11299).

 
 

System
 Energy

(b)
 1 --

Amended
 and Restated Articles of Incorporation of System Energy and amendments
 thereto through April 28, 1989 (A-1(a) to Form U-1 in
 70-5399).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 2 --

By-Laws
 of System Energy effective July 6, 1998, and as presently in effect (3(f)
 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998 in
 1-9067).

 

E-1

 

 

 

 
 

Entergy
 Arkansas

(c)
 1 --

Second
 Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Entergy Arkansas,
 effective August 19, 2009 (3 to Form 8-K dated August 24, 2009 in
 1-10764).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 2 --

By-Laws
 of Entergy Arkansas effective November 26, 1999, and as presently in
 effect (3(ii)(c) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999 in
 1-10764).

 
 

Entergy
 Gulf States Louisiana

(d)
 1 --

Articles
 of Organization of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana effective December 31,
 2007 (3(i) to Form 8-K15D5 dated January 7, 2008 in
 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 2 --

Operating
 Agreement of Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, effective as of December 31,
 2007 (3(ii) to Form 8-K15D5 dated January 7, 2008 in
 333-148557).

 
 

Entergy
 Louisiana

(e)
 1 --

Articles
 of Organization of Entergy Louisiana effective December 31, 2005 (3(c) to
 Form 8-K dated January 6, 2006 in 1-32718).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 2 --

Regulations
 of Entergy Louisiana effective December 31, 2005, and as presently in
 effect (3(d) to Form 8-K dated January 6, 2006 in
 1-32718).

 
 

Entergy
 Mississippi

(f)
 1 --

Second
 Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Entergy Mississippi,
 effective July 21, 2009 (99.1 to Form 8-K dated July 27, 2009 in
 1-31508).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 2 --

By-Laws
 of Entergy Mississippi effective November 26, 1999, and as presently in
 effect (3(ii)(f) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999 in
 0-320).

 
 

Entergy
 New Orleans

(g)
 1 --

Amended
 and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Entergy New Orleans, as amended
 May 8, 2007 (3(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 in
 0-5807).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 2 --

Amended
 By-Laws of Entergy New Orleans, as amended May 8, 2007 (3(b) to Form 10-Q
 for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 in
0-5807).

 
 

Entergy
 Texas

(h)
 1 --

Certificate
 of Formation of Entergy Texas, effective December 31, 2007 (3(i) to Form
 10 dated March 14, 2008 in 000-53134).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 2 --

By-Laws
 of Entergy Texas effective December 31, 2007 (3(ii) to Form 10 dated
 March 14, 2008 in 000-53134).

 

E-2

 

 

 

 
 

(4)

Instruments
 Defining Rights of Security Holders, Including
 Indentures

 
 

Entergy
 Corporation

(a)
 1 --

See
 (4)(b) through (4)(h) below for instruments defining the rights of holders
 of long-term debt of System Energy, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Gulf States
 Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans,
 and Entergy Texas.

 
 

 
 

(a)
 2 --

Amendment
 dated as of September 21, 2005, to the Amended and Restated Credit
 Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2005, among Entergy Corporation, as
 Borrower, Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank AG, New York Branch, as Bank,
 and Bayerische Hypo-und Vereinsbank AG, New York Branch, as Administrative
 Agent (4(b) to Form 8-K dated September 28, 2005 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 3 --

Amended
 and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2005, among Entergy
 Corporation, as Borrower, Bayerische Hypo- und Vereinsbank AG, New York
 Branch, as Bank, and Bayerische Hypo-und Vereinsbank AG, New York Branch,
 as Administrative Agent (4(g) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2005 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 4 --

Credit
 Agreement ($3,500,000,000), dated as of August 2, 2007, among Entergy
 Corporation, the Banks (Citibank, N.A., ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Barclays Bank
 PLC, BNP Paribas, Calyon New York Branch, Credit Suisse (Cayman Islands
 Branch), J. P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBank National Association,
 Lehman Brothers Bank (FSB), Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd., Morgan Stanley
 Bank, Regions Bank, Societe Generale, The Bank of New York, The Bank of
 Nova Scotia, The Bank of Toyko-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (New York Branch), The
 Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Union Bank of California, N.A., Wachovia Bank,
 National Association and William Street Commitment Corporation), Citibank,
 N.A., as Administrative Agent and LC Issuing Bank, and ABN AMRO Bank,
 N.V., as LC Issuing Bank (10(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
 30, 2007 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 5 --

Indenture,
 dated as of December 1, 2002, between Entergy Corporation and Deutsche
 Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee (4(a)4 to Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 2002 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 6 --

Supplemental
 No. 1, dated as of December 20, 2005, between Entergy Corporation and
 Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee (4(a)11 to Form 10-K for
 the year ended December 31, 2005 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 7 --

Officer's
 Certificate for Entergy Corporation relating to 7.06% Senior Notes due
 March 15, 2011 (4(d) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
 2003 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 8 --

Officer's
 Certificate for Entergy Corporation relating to 6.58% Senior Notes due May
 15, 2010 (4(d) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 9 --

Officer's
 Certificate for Entergy Corporation relating to 6.90% Senior Notes due
 November 15, 2010 (4(a)10 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2003 in 1-11299).

 

E-3

 

 

 

 
 

System
 Energy

(b)
 1 --

Mortgage
 and Deed of Trust, dated as of June 15, 1977, as amended by twenty-three
 Supplemental Indentures (A-1 in 70-5890 (Mortgage); B and C to
 Rule 24 Certificate in 70-5890 (First); B to Rule 24 Certificate in
 70-6259 (Second); 20(a)-5 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 1981 in 1-3517 (Third); A-1(e)-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6985
 (Fourth); B to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7021 (Fifth); B to
 Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7021 (Sixth); A-3(b) to Rule 24
 Certificate in 70-7026 (Seventh); A-3(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in
 70-7158 (Eighth); B to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7123 (Ninth); B-1 to
 Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7272 (Tenth); B-2 to Rule 24
 Certificate in 70-7272 (Eleventh); B-3 to Rule 24 Certificate in
 70-7272 (Twelfth); B-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7382
 (Thirteenth); B-2 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7382 (Fourteenth);
 A-2(c) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7946 (Fifteenth); A-2(c) to
 Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7946 (Sixteenth); A-2(d) to Rule 24
 Certificate in 70-7946 (Seventeenth); A-2(e) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 May 4, 1993 in 70-7946 (Eighteenth); A-2(g) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 May 6, 1994 in 70-7946 (Nineteenth); A-2(a)(1) to Rule 24 Certificate
 dated August 8, 1996 in 70-8511 (Twentieth); A-2(a)(2) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated August 8, 1996 in 70-8511 (Twenty-first); A-2(a) to Rule
 24 Certificate dated October 4, 2002 in 70-9753 (Twenty-second); and 4(b)
 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 in 1-9067
 (Twenty-third)).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 2 --

Facility
 Lease No. 1, dated as of December 1, 1988, between Meridian
 Trust Company and Stephen M. Carta (Steven Kaba, successor), as Owner
 Trustees, and System Energy (B-2(c)(1) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 January 9, 1989 in 70-7561), as supplemented by Lease Supplement No.
 1 dated as of April 1, 1989 (B-22(b) (1) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 April 21, 1989 in 70-7561), Lease Supplement No. 2 dated as of January 1,
 1994 (B-3(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 31, 1994 in 70-8215),
 and Lease Supplement No. 3 dated as of May 1, 2004 (B-3(d) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated June 4, 2004 in 70-10182).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 3 --

Facility
 Lease No. 2, dated as of December 1, 1988 between Meridian Trust
 Company and Stephen M. Carta (Steven Kaba, successor), as Owner Trustees,
 and System Energy (B-2(c)(2) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 January 9, 1989 in 70-7561), as supplemented by Lease Supplement No.
 1 dated as of April 1, 1989 (B-22(b) (2) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 April 21, 1989 in 70-7561), Lease Supplement No. 2 dated as of January 1,
 1994 (B-4(d) Rule 24 Certificate dated January 31, 1994 in 70-8215), and
 Lease Supplement No. 3 dated as of May 1, 2004 (B-4(d) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated June 4, 2004 in
70-10182).

 
 

Entergy
 Arkansas

(c)
 1 --

Mortgage
 and Deed of Trust, dated as of October 1, 1944, as amended by sixty-eight
 Supplemental Indentures (7(d) in 2-5463 (Mortgage); 7(b) in 2-7121
 (First); 7(c) in 2-7605 (Second); 7(d) in 2-8100 (Third); 7(a)-4 in 2-8482
 (Fourth); 7(a)-5 in 2-9149 (Fifth); 4(a)-6 in 2-9789 (Sixth); 4(a)-7 in
 2-10261 (Seventh); 4(a)-8 in 2-11043 (Eighth); 2(b)-9 in 2-11468 (Ninth);
 2(b)-10 in 2-15767 (Tenth); D in 70-3952 (Eleventh); D in 70-4099
 (Twelfth); 4(d) in 2-23185 (Thirteenth); 2(c) in 2-24414 (Fourteenth);
 2(c) in 2-25913 (Fifteenth); 2(c) in 2-28869 (Sixteenth); 2(d) in 2-28869
 (Seventeenth); 2(c) in 2-35107 (Eighteenth); 2(d) in 2-36646 (Nineteenth);
 2(c) in 2-39253 (Twentieth); 2(c) in 2-41080 (Twenty-first); C-1 to
 Rule 24 Certificate in 70-5151 (Twenty-second); C-1 to Rule 24
 Certificate in 70-5257 (Twenty-third); C to Rule 24 Certificate in
 70-5343 (Twenty-fourth); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-5404
 (Twenty-fifth); C to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-5502 (Twenty-sixth);
 C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-5556 (Twenty-seventh); C-1 to
 Rule 24 Certificate in 70-5693 (Twenty-eighth); C-1 to Rule 24
 Certificate in 70-6078 (Twenty-ninth); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in
 70-6174 (Thirtieth); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6246
 (Thirty-first); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6498
 (Thirty-second); A-4b-2 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6326
 (Thirty-third); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6607
 (Thirty-fourth); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6650
 (Thirty-fifth); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate dated December 1,
 1982 in 70-6774 (Thirty-sixth); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 February 17, 1983 in 70-6774 (Thirty-seventh); A-2(a) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated December 5, 1984 in 70-6858 (Thirty-eighth); A-3(a)
 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7127 (Thirty-ninth); A-7 to Rule 24
 Certificate in 70-7068 (Fortieth); A-8(b) to Rule 24 Certificate
 dated July 6, 1989 in 70-7346 (Forty-first); A-8(c) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated February 1, 1990 in 70-7346 (Forty-second); 4 to
 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1990 in 1-10764
 (Forty-third); A-2(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated November 30, 1990
 in 70-7802 (Forty-fourth); A-2(b) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 January 24, 1991 in 70-7802 (Forty-fifth); 4(d)(2) in 33-54298
 (Forty-sixth); 4(c)(2) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992
 in 1-10764 (Forty-seventh); 4(b) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
 30, 1993 in 1-10764 (Forty-eighth); 4(c) to Form 10-Q for the quarter
 ended June 30, 1993 in 1-10764 (Forty-ninth); 4(b) to Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended September 30, 1993 in 1-10764 (Fiftieth); 4(c) to Form 10-Q
 for the quarter ended September 30, 1993 in 1-10764 (Fifty-first); 4(a) to
 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994 in 1-10764 (Fifty-second);
 C-2 to Form U5S for the year ended December 31, 1995 (Fifty-third);
 C-2(a) to Form U5S for the year ended December 31, 1996 (Fifty-fourth);
 4(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2000 in 1-10764
 (Fifty-fifth); 4(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001
 in 1-10764 (Fifty-sixth); C-2(a) to Form U5S for the year ended December
 31, 2001 (Fifty-seventh); 4(c)1 to Form 10-K for the year
 December 31, 2002 in 1-10764 (Fifty-eighth); 4(a) to Form 10-Q for
 the quarter ended June 30, 2003 in 1-10764 (Fifty-ninth); 4(f) to Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 in 1-10764 (Sixtieth); 4(h) to
 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 in 1-10764 (Sixty-first);
 4(e) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 in 1-10764
 (Sixty-second); 4(c)1 to Form 10-K for the year December 31, 2004 in
 1-10764 (Sixty-third); C-2(a) to Form U5S for the year ended December 31,
 2004 (Sixty-fourth); 4(c) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005
 in 1-10764 (Sixty-fifth); 4(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter
 ended June 30, 2005 in 1-10764 (Sixty-sixth); 4(b) to Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended June 30, 2008 in 1-10764 (Sixty-seventh); and 4(c)1 to Form
 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 in 1-10764
 (Sixty-eighth)).

 

E-4

 

 

 

 
 

Entergy
 Gulf States Louisiana

(d)
 1 --

Indenture
 of Mortgage, dated September 1, 1926, as amended by certain Supplemental
 Indentures (B-a-I-1 in Registration No. 2-2449 (Mortgage); 7-A-9 in
 Registration No. 2-6893 (Seventh); B to Form 8-K dated September 1, 1959
 (Eighteenth); B to Form 8-K dated February 1, 1966 (Twenty-second); B to
 Form 8-K dated March 1, 1967 (Twenty-third); C to Form 8-K dated March 1,
 1968 (Twenty-fourth); B to Form 8-K dated November 1, 1968 (Twenty-fifth);
 B to Form 8-K dated April 1, 1969 (Twenty-sixth); 2-A-8 in Registration
 No. 2-66612 (Thirty-eighth); 4-2 to Form 10-K for the year ended December
 31, 1984 in 1-27031 (Forty-eighth); 4-2 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 1988 in 1-27031 (Fifty-second); 4 to Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 1991 in 1-27031 (Fifty-third); 4 to Form 8-K dated July
 29, 1992 in 1-27031 (Fifth-fourth); 4 to Form 10-K
 dated December 31, 1992 in 1-27031 (Fifty-fifth); 4 to Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1993 in 1-27031 (Fifty-sixth); 4-2 to
 Amendment No. 9 to Registration No. 2-76551 (Fifty-seventh); 4(b) to Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,1999 in 1-27031 (Fifty-eighth); A-2(a)
 to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 23, 2000 in 70-8721 (Fifty-ninth);
 A-2(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated September 10, 2001 in 70-9751
 (Sixtieth); A-2(b) to Rule 24 Certificate dated November 18, 2002 in
 70-9751 (Sixty-first); A-2(c) to Rule 24 Certificate dated December 6,
 2002 in 70-9751 (Sixty-second); A-2(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated June
 16, 2003 in 70-9751 (Sixty-third); A-2(e) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 June 27, 2003 in 70-9751 (Sixty-fourth); A-2(f) to Rule 24 Certificate
 dated July 11, 2003 in 70-9751 (Sixty-fifth); A-2(g) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated July 28, 2003 in 70-9751 (Sixty-sixth); A-3(i) to Rule
 24 Certificate dated November 4, 2004 in 70-10158 (Sixty-seventh); A-3(ii)
 to Rule 24 Certificate dated November 23, 2004 in 70-10158 (Sixty-eighth);
 A-3(iii) to Rule 24 Certificate dated February 16, 2005 in 70-10158
 (Sixty-ninth); A-3(iv) to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 2, 2005 in
 70-10158 (Seventieth); A-3(v) to Rule 24 Certificate dated July 21, 2005
 in 70-10158 (Seventy-first); A-3(vi) to Rule 24 Certificate dated October
 7, 2005 in 70-10158 (Seventy-second); A-3(vii) to Rule 24 Certificate
 dated December 19, 2005 in 70-10158 (Seventy-third); 4(a) to Form 10-Q for
 the quarter ended March 31, 2006 in 1-27031 (Seventy-fourth); 4(iv) to
 Form 8-K15D5 dated January 7, 2008 in 333-148557 (Seventy-fifth); 4(a) to
 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 in 333-148557
 (Seventy-sixth); and 4(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
 2009 in 0-20371 (Seventy-seventh)).

 
 

 
 

 

E-5

 

 

 

 

(d)
 2 --

Indenture,
 dated March 21, 1939, accepting resignation of The Chase National Bank of
 the City of New York as trustee and appointing Central Hanover Bank and
 Trust Company as successor trustee (B-a-1-6 in Registration No.
 2-4076).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 3 --

Agreement
 of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance, dated as of October 3, 2007,
 among Entergy Gulf States, Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, National
 Association, as resigning trustee, and The Bank of New York, as successor
 trustee (4(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 4 --

Credit
 Agreement ($200,000,000), dated as of August 2, 2007, among Entergy Gulf
 States, Inc., the Banks (Citibank, N.A., ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Barclays Bank
 PLC, BNP Paribas, Calyon New York Branch, Credit Suisse (Cayman Islands
 Branch), JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBank National Association, Mizuho
 Corporate Bank, Ltd., Morgan Stanley Bank, The Bank of New York, The Royal
 Bank of Scotland plc, and Wachovia Bank, National Association), Citibank,
 N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the LC Issuing Banks (10(c) to Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 5 --

Assumption
 Agreement, dated as of May 30, 2008, among Entergy Texas, Inc., Entergy
 Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C. and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent
 (10(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 in
 0-53134).

 
 

Entergy
 Louisiana

*(e)
 1 --

Mortgage
 and Deed of Trust, dated as of April 1, 1944, as amended by sixty-six
 Supplemental Indentures (7(d) in 2-5317 (Mortgage); 7(b) in 2-7408
 (First); 7(c) in 2-8636 (Second); 4(b)-3 in 2-10412 (Third); 4(b)-4 in
 2-12264 (Fourth); 2(b)-5 in 2-12936 (Fifth); D in 70-3862 (Sixth);
 2(b)-7 in 2-22340 (Seventh); 2(c) in 2-24429 (Eighth); 4(c)-9 in 2-25801
 (Ninth); 4(c)-10 in 2-26911 (Tenth); 2(c) in 2-28123 (Eleventh); 2(c) in
 2-34659 (Twelfth); C to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-4793
 (Thirteenth); 2(b)-2 in 2-38378 (Fourteenth); 2(b)-2 in 2-39437
 (Fifteenth); 2(b)-2 in 2-42523 (Sixteenth); C to Rule 24
 Certificate in 70-5242 (Seventeenth); C to Rule 24 Certificate
 in 70-5330 (Eighteenth); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-5449
 (Nineteenth); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-5550 (Twentieth);
 A-6(a) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-5598 (Twenty-first); C-1 to
 Rule 24 Certificate in 70-5711 (Twenty-second); C-1 to Rule 24
 Certificate in 70-5919 (Twenty-third); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in
 70-6102 (Twenty-fourth); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6169
 (Twenty-fifth); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6278 (Twenty-sixth);
 C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6355 (Twenty-seventh); C-1 to
 Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6508 (Twenty-eighth); C-1 to Rule 24
 Certificate in 70-6556 (Twenty-ninth); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in
 70-6635 (Thirtieth); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6834
 (Thirty-first); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6886
 (Thirty-second); C-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6993
 (Thirty-third); C-2 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6993
 (Thirty-fourth); C-3 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-6993
 (Thirty-fifth); A-2(a) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7166
 (Thirty-sixth); A-2(a) in 70-7226 (Thirty-seventh); C-1 to Rule 24
 Certificate in 70-7270 (Thirty-eighth); 4(a) to Quarterly Report on
 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1988 in 1-8474
 (Thirty-ninth); A-2(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7553 (Fortieth);
 A-2(d) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7553 (Forty-first); A-3(a) to
 Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7822 (Forty-second); A-3(b) to Rule 24
 Certificate in 70-7822 (Forty-third); A-2(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in
 70-7822 (Forty-fourth); A-3(c) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7822
 (Forty-fifth); A-2(c) to Rule 24 Certificate dated April 7, 1993 in
 70-7822 (Forty-sixth); A-3(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 4, 1993 in
 70-7822 (Forth-seventh); A-3(e) to Rule 24 Certificate dated December 21,
 1993 in 70-7822 (Forty-eighth); A-3(f) to Rule 24 Certificate dated August
 1, 1994 in 70-7822 (Forty-ninth); A-4(c) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 September 28, 1994 in 70-7653 (Fiftieth); A-2(a) to Rule 24 Certificate
 dated April 4, 1996 in 70-8487 (Fifty-first); A-2(a) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated April 3, 1998 in 70-9141 (Fifty-second); A-2(b) to Rule
 24 Certificate dated April 9, 1999 in 70-9141 (Fifty-third); A-3(a) to
 Rule 24 Certificate dated July 6, 1999 in 70-9141 (Fifty-fourth); A-2(c)
 to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 2, 2000 in 70-9141 (Fifty-fifth); A-2(d)
 to Rule 24 Certificate dated April 4, 2002 in 70-9141 (Fifty-sixth);
 A-3(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated March 30, 2004 in 70-10086
 (Fifty-seventh); A-3(b) to Rule 24 Certificate dated October 15, 2004 in
 70-10086 (Fifty-eighth); A-3(c) to Rule 24 Certificate dated October 26,
 2004 in 70-10086 (Fifty-ninth); A-3(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May
 18, 2005 in 70-10086 (Sixtieth); A-3(e) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 August 25, 2005 in 70-10086 (Sixty-first); A-3(f) to Rule 24 Certificate
 dated October 31, 2005 in 70-10086 (Sixty-second); B-4(i) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated January 10, 2006 in 70-10324 (Sixty-third); B-4(ii) to
 Rule 24 Certificate dated January 10, 2006 in 70-10324 (Sixty-fourth);
 4(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 in 1-32718
 (Sixty-fifth); and (Sixty-sixth)).

 

E-6

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

(e)
 2 --

Facility
 Lease No. 1, dated as of September 1, 1989, between First
 National Bank of Commerce, as Owner Trustee, and Entergy Louisiana (4(c)-1
 in Registration No. 33-30660), as supplemented by Lease Supplement
 No. 1 dated as of July 1, 1997 (attached to Refunding Agreement No. 1,
 dated as of June 27, 1997, with such Refunding Agreement filed as Exhibit
 2 to Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 14, 1997 in
 1-8474).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 3 --

Facility
 Lease No. 2, dated as of September 1, 1989, between First
 National Bank of Commerce, as Owner Trustee, and Entergy Louisiana (4(c)-2
 in Registration No. 33-30660), as supplemented by Lease Supplemental
 No. 1 dated as of July 1, 1997 (attached to Refunding Agreement No. 2,
 dated as of June 27, 1997, with such Refunding Agreement filed as Exhibit
 3 to Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 14, 1997 in
 1-8474).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 4 --

Facility
 Lease No. 3, dated as of September 1, 1989, between First
 National Bank of Commerce, as Owner Trustee, and Entergy Louisiana (4(c)-3
 in Registration No. 33-30660), as supplemented by Lease Supplemental
 No. 1 dated as of July 1, 1997 (attached to Refunding Agreement No. 3,
 dated as of June 27, 1997, with such Refunding Agreement filed as Exhibit
 4 to Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 14, 1997 in
 1-8474).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 5 --

Credit
 Agreement ($200,000,000), dated as of August 2, 2007, among Entergy
 Louisiana, the Banks (Citibank, N.A., ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Barclays Bank
 PLC, BNP Paribas, Calyon New York Branch, Credit Suisse (Cayman Islands
 Branch), JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBank National Association, Mizuho
 Corporate Bank, Ltd., Morgan Stanley Bank, The Bank of New York, The Royal
 Bank of Scotland plc, and Wachovia Bank, National Association), Citibank,
 N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the LC Issuing Banks (10(b) to Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 in
 1-11299).

 

E-7

 

 

 

 
 

Entergy
 Mississippi

(f)
 1 --

Mortgage
 and Deed of Trust, dated as of February 1, 1988, as amended by
 twenty-six Supplemental Indentures (A-2(a)-2 to Rule 24 Certificate
 in 70-7461 (Mortgage); A-2(b)-2 in 70-7461 (First); A-5(b) to Rule 24
 Certificate in 70-7419 (Second); A-4(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in
 70-7554 (Third); A-1(b)-1 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7737 (Fourth);
 A-2(b) to Rule 24 Certificate dated November 24, 1992 in 70-7914
 (Fifth); A-2(e) to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 22, 1993 in
 70-7914 (Sixth); A-2(g) to Form U-1 in 70-7914 (Seventh); A-2(i) to Rule
 24 Certificate dated November 10, 1993 in 70-7914 (Eighth); A-2(j) to Rule
 24 Certificate dated July 22, 1994 in 70-7914 (Ninth); (A-2(l) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated April 21, 1995 in 70-7914 (Tenth); A-2(a) to Rule
 24 Certificate dated June 27, 1997 in 70-8719 (Eleventh); A-2(b) to Rule
 24 Certificate dated April 16, 1998 in 70-8719 (Twelfth); A-2(c) to Rule
 24 Certificate dated May 12, 1999 in 70-8719 (Thirteenth); A-3(a) to Rule
 24 Certificate dated June 8, 1999 in 70-8719 (Fourteenth); A-2(d) to Rule
 24 Certificate dated February 24, 2000 in 70-8719 (Fifteenth); A-2(a) to
 Rule 24 Certificate dated February 9, 2001 in 70-9757 (Sixteenth); A-2(b)
 to Rule 24 Certificate dated October 31, 2002 in 70-9757 (Seventeenth);
 A-2(c) to Rule 24 Certificate dated December 2, 2002 in 70-9757
 (Eighteenth); A-2(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated February 6, 2003 in
 70-9757 (Nineteenth); A-2(e) to Rule 24 Certificate dated April 4, 2003 in
 70-9757 (Twentieth); A-2(f) to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 6, 2003 in
 70-9757 (Twenty-first); A-3(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated April 8, 2004
 in 70-10157 (Twenty-second); A-3(b) to Rule 24 Certificate dated April 29,
 2004 in 70-10157 (Twenty-third); A-3(c) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 October 4, 2004 in 70-10157 (Twenty-fourth); A-3(d) to Rule 24 Certificate
 dated January 27, 2006 in 70-10157 (Twenty-fifth); and 4(b) to Form 10-Q
 for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 in 1-31508
 (Twenty-sixth)).

 
 

Entergy
 New Orleans

(g)
 1 --

Mortgage
 and Deed of Trust, dated as of May 1, 1987, as amended by fourteen
 Supplemental Indentures (A-2(c) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7350
 (Mortgage); A-5(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7350 (First); A-4(b)
 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-7448 (Second); 4(f)4 to Form 10-K for
 the year ended December 31, 1992 in 0-5807 (Third); 4(a) to Form 10-Q for
 the quarter ended September 30, 1993 in 0-5807 (Fourth); 4(a) to Form 8-K
 dated April 26, 1995 in 0-5807 (Fifth); 4(a) to Form 8-K dated March 22,
 1996 in 0-5807 (Sixth); 4(b) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 1998 in 0-5807 (Seventh); 4(d) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2000 in 0-5807 (Eighth); C-5(a) to Form U5S for the year ended December
 31, 2000 (Ninth); 4(b) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
 2002 in 0-5807 (Tenth); 4(k) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2003 in 0-5807 (Eleventh); 4(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
 September 30, 2004 in 0-5807 (Twelfth); 4(b) to Form 10-Q for the quarter
 ended September 30, 2004 in 0-5807 (Thirteenth); and 4(e) to Form 10-Q for
 the quarter ended June 30, 2005 in 0-5807
 (Fourteenth)).

 
 

Entergy
 Texas

(h)
 1 --

Credit
 Agreement ($200,000,000), dated as of August 2, 2007, among Entergy Gulf
 States, Inc. the Banks (Citibank, N.A., ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Barclays Bank
 PLC, BNP Paribas, Calyon New York Branch, Credit Suisse (Cayman Islands
 Branch), J. P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBank National Association,
 Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd., Morgan Stanley Bank, The Bank of New York,
 The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, and Wachovia Bank, National Association),
 Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and LC Issuing Bank (10(c) to Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 in
 1-11299).

 

E-8

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

(h)
 2 --

Assumption
 Agreement, dated as of May 30, 2008, among Entergy Texas, Inc., Entergy
 Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C. and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent
 (10(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 in
 0-53134).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 3 --

Indenture,
 Deed of Trust and Security Agreement dated as of October 1, 2008, between
 Entergy Texas, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (4(h)2 to
 Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 in
 0-53134).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 4 --

Officer's
 Certificate No. 1-B-1 dated January 27, 2009, supplemental to Indenture,
 Deed of Trust and Security Agreement dated as of October 1, 2008, between
 Entergy Texas, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (4(h)3 to
 Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 in
 0-53134).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 5 --

Officer's
 Certificate No. 2-B-2 dated May 14, 2009, supplemental to Indenture, Deed
 of Trust and Security Agreement dated as of October 1, 2008, between
 Entergy Texas, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (4(a) to
 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 in
 1-34360).

 
 

(10) Material
 Contracts

 
 

Entergy
 Corporation

(a)
 1 --

Agreement,
 dated April 23, 1982, among certain System companies, relating to
 System Planning and Development and Intra-System Transactions (10(a)1 to
 Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 2 --

Second
 Amended and Restated Entergy System Agency Agreement, dated as of
 January 1, 2008 (10(a)2 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
 2007 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 3 --

Middle
 South Utilities System Agency Coordination Agreement, dated
 December 11, 1970 (5(a)3 in 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 4 --

Service
 Agreement with Entergy Services, dated as of April 1, 1963 (5(a)5 in
 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 5 --

Amendment,
 dated April 27, 1984, to Service Agreement with Entergy Services
 (10(a)7 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1984 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 6 --

Amendment,
 dated January 1, 2000, to Service Agreement with Entergy Services (10(a)12
 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

*(a)
 7 --

Amendment,
 dated June 1, 2009, to Service Agreement with Entergy
 Services.

 
 

 
 

(a)
 8 --

Availability
 Agreement, dated June 21, 1974, among System Energy and certain other
 System companies (B to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 24, 1974
 in 70-5399).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 9 --

First
 Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of June 30, 1977 (B to
 Rule 24 Certificate dated June 24, 1977 in
 70-5399).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 10 --

Second
 Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of June 15, 1981 (E to
 Rule 24 Certificate dated July 1, 1981 in
 70-6592).

 

E-9

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

(a)
 11 --

Third
 Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of June 28, 1984
 (B-13(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated July 6, 1984 in
 70-6985).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 12 --

Fourth
 Amendment to Availability Agreement, dated as of June 1, 1989 (A to
 Rule 24 Certificate dated June 8, 1989 in
 70-5399).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 13 --

Eighteenth
 Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent and Agreement, dated as of
 September 1, 1986, with United States Trust Company of New York and
 Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (C-2 to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 October 1, 1986 in 70-7272).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 14 --

Nineteenth
 Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent and Agreement, dated as of
 September 1, 1986, with United States Trust Company of New York and
 Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (C-3 to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 October 1, 1986 in 70-7272).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 15 --

Twenty-sixth
 Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent and Agreement, dated as of
 October 1, 1992, with United States Trust Company of New York and Gerard
 F. Ganey, as Trustees (B-2(c) to Rule 24 Certificate dated November 2,
 1992 in 70-7946).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 16 --

Twenty-seventh
 Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent and Agreement, dated as of
 April 1, 1993, with United States Trust Company of New York and Gerard F.
 Ganey as Trustees (B-2(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 4, 1993 in
 70-7946).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 17 --

Twenty-ninth
 Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent and Agreement, dated as of
 April 1, 1994, with United States Trust Company of New York and Gerard F.
 Ganey as Trustees (B-2(f) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 6, 1994 in
 70-7946).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 18 --

Thirtieth
 Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent and Agreement, dated as of
 August 1, 1996, among System Energy, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy
 Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi and Entergy New Orleans, and United States
 Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (B-2(a) to Rule
 24 Certificate dated August 8, 1996 in 70-8511).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 19 --

Thirty-first
 Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent and Agreement, dated as of
 August 1, 1996, among System Energy, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana,
 Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans, and United States Trust
 Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (B-2(b) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated August 8, 1996 in 70-8511).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 20 --

Thirty-fourth
 Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent and Agreement, dated as of
 September 1, 2002, among System Energy, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy
 Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans, The Bank of New
 York and Douglas J. MacInnes (B-2(a)(1) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 October 4, 2001 in 70-9753).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 21 --

Amendment
 to the Thirty-fourth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent and
 Agreement, dated as of December 15, 2005 (B-5(i) to Rule 24 Certificate
 dated January 10, 2006 in 70-10324).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 22 --

Thirty-fifth
 Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent and Agreement, dated as of
 December 22, 2003, among System Energy, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy
 Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans, and Union Bank of
 California, N.A (10(a)25 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003
 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

 

E-10

 

 

 

 

(a)
 23 --

First
 Amendment to Thirty-fifth Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent
 and Agreement, dated as of December 17, 2004 (10(a)24 to Form 10-K for the
 year ended December 31, 2004 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 24 --

Thirty-sixth
 Assignment of Availability Agreement, Consent and Agreement, dated as of
 September 1, 2007, among System Energy, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy
 Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans, and The Bank of
 New York and Douglas J. MacInnes, as trustees (10(a)24 to Form 10-K for
 the year ended December 31, 2007 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 25 --

Capital
 Funds Agreement, dated June 21, 1974, between Entergy Corporation and
 System Energy (C to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 24, 1974 in
 70-5399).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 26 --

First
 Amendment to Capital Funds Agreement, dated as of June 1, 1989 (B to
 Rule 24 Certificate dated June 8, 1989 in
 70-5399).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 27 --

Eighteenth
 Supplementary Capital Funds Agreement and Assignment, dated as of
 September 1, 1986, with United States Trust Company of New York and
 Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (D-2 to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 October 1, 1986 in 70-7272).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 28 --

Nineteenth
 Supplementary Capital Funds Agreement and Assignment, dated as of
 September 1, 1986, with United States Trust Company of New York and Gerard
 F. Ganey, as Trustees (D-3 to Rule 24 Certificate dated October 1, 1986 in
 70-7272).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 29 --

Twenty-sixth
 Supplementary Capital Funds Agreement and Assignment, dated as of October
 1, 1992, with United States Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey,
 as Trustees (B-3(c) to Rule 24 Certificate dated November 2, 1992 in
 70-7946).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 30 --

Twenty-seventh
 Supplementary Capital Funds Agreement and Assignment, dated as of
 April 1, 1993, with United States Trust Company of New York and
 Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (B-3(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 4,
 1993 in 70-7946).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 31 --

Twenty-ninth
 Supplementary Capital Funds Agreement and Assignment, dated as of April 1,
 1994, with United States Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey, as
 Trustees (B-3(f) to Rule 24 Certificate dated May 6, 1994 in
 70-7946).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 32 --

Thirtieth
 Supplementary Capital Funds Agreement and Assignment, dated as of
 August 1, 1996, among Entergy Corporation, System Energy and United
 States Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (B-3(a)
 to Rule 24 Certificate dated August 8, 1996 in
70-8511).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 33 --

Thirty-first
 Supplementary Capital Funds Agreement and Assignment, dated as of
 August 1, 1996, among Entergy Corporation, System Energy and United
 States Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey, as Trustees (B-3(b)
 to Rule 24 Certificate dated August 8, 1996 in
70-8511).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 34 --

Thirty-fourth
 Supplementary Capital Funds Agreement and Assignment, dated as of
 September 1, 2002, among Entergy Corporation, System Energy, The Bank of
 New York and Douglas J. MacInnes (B-3(a)(1) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 October 4, 2002 in 70-9753).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 35 --

Thirty-fifth
 Supplementary Capital Funds Agreement and Assignment, dated as of
 December 22, 2003, among Entergy Corporation, System Energy, and
 Union Bank of California, N.A (10(a)38 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2003 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

 

E-11

 

 

 

 

(a)
 36 --

Thirty-sixth
 Supplementary Capital Funds Agreement and Assignment, dated as of
 September 1, 2007, among Entergy Corporation, System Energy and The Bank
 of New York and Douglas J. MacInnes, as Trustees (10(a)36 to Form 10-K for
 the year ended December 31, 2007 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 37 --

First
 Amendment to Supplementary Capital Funds Agreements and Assignments, dated
 as of June 1, 1989, by and between Entergy Corporation, System Energy,
 Deposit Guaranty National Bank, United States Trust Company of New York
 and Gerard F. Ganey (C to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 8, 1989 in
 70-7026).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 38 --

First
 Amendment to Supplementary Capital Funds Agreements and Assignments, dated
 as of June 1, 1989, by and between Entergy Corporation, System Energy,
 United States Trust Company of New York and Gerard F. Ganey (C to Rule 24
 Certificate dated June 8, 1989 in 70-7123).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 39 --

First
 Amendment to Supplementary Capital Funds Agreement and Assignment, dated
 as of June 1, 1989, by and between Entergy Corporation, System Energy
 and Chemical Bank (C to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 8, 1989 in
 70-7561).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 40 --

Reallocation
 Agreement, dated as of July 28, 1981, among System Energy and certain
 other System companies (B-1(a) in 70-6624).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 41 --

Joint
 Construction, Acquisition and Ownership Agreement, dated as of May 1,
 1980, between System Energy and SMEPA (B-1(a) in 70-6337), as amended by
 Amendment No. 1, dated as of May 1, 1980 (B-1(c) in 70-6337) and
 Amendment No. 2, dated as of October 31, 1980 (1 to Rule 24
 Certificate dated October 30, 1981 in 70-6337).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 42 --

Operating
 Agreement dated as of May 1, 1980, between System Energy and SMEPA
 (B(2)(a) in 70-6337).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 43 --

Assignment,
 Assumption and Further Agreement No. 1, dated as of December 1,
 1988, among System Energy, Meridian Trust Company and Stephen M. Carta,
 and SMEPA (B-7(c)(1) to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 9, 1989 in
 70-7561).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 44 --

Assignment,
 Assumption and Further Agreement No. 2, dated as of December 1, 1988,
 among System Energy, Meridian Trust Company and Stephen M. Carta, and
 SMEPA (B-7(c)(2) to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 9, 1989 in
 70-7561).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 45 --

Substitute
 Power Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1980, among Entergy Mississippi,
 System Energy and SMEPA (B(3)(a) in 70-6337).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 46 --

Grand
 Gulf Unit No. 2 Supplementary Agreement, dated as of February 7,
 1986, between System Energy and SMEPA (10(aaa) in
 33-4033).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 47 --

Compromise
 and Settlement Agreement, dated June 4, 1982, between Texaco, Inc. and
 Entergy Louisiana (28(a) to Form 8-K dated June 4, 1982 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 48 --

Unit
 Power Sales Agreement, dated as of June 10, 1982, between System Energy
 and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi and Entergy
 New Orleans (10(a)39 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

 

E-12

 

 

 

(a)
 49 --

First
 Amendment to Unit Power Sales Agreement, dated as of June 28, 1984,
 between System Energy and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy
 Mississippi and Entergy New Orleans (19 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
 September 30, 1984 in 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 50 --

Revised
 Unit Power Sales Agreement (10(ss) in 33-4033).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 51 --

Middle
 South Utilities Inc. and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax
 Allocation Agreement, dated April 28, 1988 (D-1 to Form U5S for the year
 ended December 31, 1987).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 52 --

First
 Amendment, dated January 1, 1990, to the Middle South Utilities Inc. and
 Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-2 to
 Form U5S for the year ended December 31, 1989).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 53 --

Second
 Amendment dated January 1, 1992, to the Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-3 to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1992).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 54 --

Third
 Amendment dated January 1, 1994 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-3(a) to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1993).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 55 --

Fourth
 Amendment dated April 1, 1997 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-5 to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1996).

 
 

 
 

*(a)
 56 --

Fifth
 Amendment dated November 20, 2009 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement.

 
 

 
 

(a)
 57 --

Guaranty
 Agreement between Entergy Corporation and Entergy Arkansas, dated as of
 September 20, 1990 (B-1(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 September 27, 1990 in 70-7757).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 58 --

Guarantee
 Agreement between Entergy Corporation and Entergy Louisiana, dated as of
 September 20, 1990 (B-2(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 September 27, 1990 in 70-7757).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 59 --

Guarantee
 Agreement between Entergy Corporation and System Energy, dated as of
 September 20, 1990 (B-3(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 September 27, 1990 in 70- 7757).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 60 --

Loan
 Agreement between Entergy Operations and Entergy Corporation, dated as of
 September 20, 1990 (B-12(b) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 June 15, 1990 in 70-7679).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 61 --

Loan
 Agreement between Entergy Corporation and Entergy Systems and Service,
 Inc., dated as of December 29, 1992 (A-4(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in
 70-7947).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 62 --

Executive
 Financial Counseling Program of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries
 (10(a)64 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 63 --

Amended
 and Restated Executive Annual Incentive Plan of Entergy Corporation and
 Subsidiaries, effective January 1, 2003 (10(b) to Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended March 31, 2003 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

 

E-13

 

 

 

+(a)
 64 --

Equity
 Ownership Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries (A-4(a) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated May 24, 1991 in 70-7831).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 65 --

Amendment
 No. 1 to the Equity Ownership Plan of Entergy Corporation and
 Subsidiaries (10(a)71 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 66 --

2007
 Equity Ownership and Long Term Cash Incentive Plan of Entergy Corporation
 and Subsidiaries (Effective for Grants and Elections On or After January
 1, 2007) (Appendix B to Entergy Corporation's definitive proxy statement
 for its annual meeting of stockholders held on May 12, 2006 in
 1-11299)

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 67 --

Amended
 and Restated 1998 Equity Ownership Plan of Entergy Corporation and
 Subsidiaries (10(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003
 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 68 --

Supplemental
 Retirement Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries, as amended
 effective January 1, 2000 (10(a)70 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2001 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 69 --

Amendment,
 effective December 28, 2001, to the Supplemental Retirement Plan of
 Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a)71 to Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 2001 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 70 --

Defined
 Contribution Restoration Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries, as
 amended effective January 1, 2000 (10(a)72 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2001 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 71 --

Amendment,
 effective December 28, 2001, to the Defined Contribution Restoration Plan
 of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a)73 to Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 2001 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 72 --

Executive
 Disability Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a)74 to Form
 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 73 --

Amended
 and Restated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan of Entergy Corporation
 and Subsidiaries, dated June 10, 2003 (10(d) to Form 10-Q for the quarter
 ended June 30, 2003 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 74 --

Equity
 Awards Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries, effective as of
 August 31, 2000 (10(a)77 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001
 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 75 --

Amendment,
 effective December 7, 2001, to the Equity Awards Plan of Entergy
 Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a)78 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2001 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 76 --

Amendment,
 effective December 10, 2001, to the Equity Awards Plan of Entergy
 Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(b) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
 March 31, 2002 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

*+(a)
 77 --

System
 Executive Continuity Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries,
 effective as of January 1, 2009.

 
 

 
 

*+(a)
 78--

First
 Amendment of the System Executive Continuity Plan of Entergy Corporation
 and Subsidiaries, effective January 1, 2010.

 
 

 
 

 

E-14

 

 

 

+(a)
 79 --

System
 Executive Continuity Plan II of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries,
 effective March 8, 2004 (10(e) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
 31, 2004 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 80 --

First
 Amendment of the System Executive Continuity Plan II of Entergy
 Corporation and Subsidiaries, effective December 29, 2004 (10(a)78 to Form
 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 81 --

Post-Retirement
 Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries, as amended effective
 January 1, 2000 (10(a)80 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
 2001 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 82 --

Amendment,
 effective December 28, 2001, to the Post-Retirement Plan of Entergy
 Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a)81 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2001 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 83 --

Pension
 Equalization Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries, as amended
 effective January 1, 2000 (10(a)82 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2001 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 84 --

Amendment,
 effective December 28, 2001, to the Pension Equalization Plan of Entergy
 Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a)83 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2001 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 85 --

Service
 Recognition Program for Non-Employee Outside Directors of Entergy
 Corporation and Subsidiaries, effective January 1, 2009 (10(a) to Form
 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 86 --

Executive
 Income Security Plan of Gulf States Utilities Company, as amended
 effective March 1, 1991 (10(a)86 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2001 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 87 --

System
 Executive Retirement Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries,
 effective January 1, 2000 (10(a)87 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2001 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 88 --

Amendment,
 effective December 28, 2001, to the System Executive Retirement Plan of
 Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries (10(a)88 to Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 2001 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 89 --

Retention
 Agreement effective October 27, 2000 between J. Wayne Leonard and Entergy
 Corporation (10(a)81 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 90 --

Amendment
 to Retention Agreement effective March 8, 2004 between J. Wayne Leonard
 and Entergy Corporation (10(c) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
 31, 2004 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 91 --

Amendment
 to Retention Agreement effective December 30, 2005 between J. Wayne
 Leonard and Entergy Corporation (10(a)91 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2005 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

*+(a)
 92 --

Amendment
 to Retention Agreement effective December 17, 2009 between J. Wayne
 Leonard and Entergy Corporation.

 
 

 
 

*+(a)
 93-

Restricted
 Unit Agreement between J. Wayne Leonard and Entergy
 Corporation.

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 94--

Employment
 Agreement effective August 7, 2001 between Curt L. Hebert and Entergy
 Corporation (10(a)97 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

 

E-15

 

 

 

(a)
 95--

Agreement
 of Limited Partnership of Entergy-Koch, LP among EKLP, LLC, EK Holding I,
 LLC, EK Holding II, LLC and Koch Energy, Inc. dated January 31, 2001
 (10(a)94 to Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2000 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 96--

Employment
 Agreement effective April 15, 2003 between Robert D. Sloan and Entergy
 Services (10(c) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 97 --

Employment
 Agreement effective November 24, 2003 between Mark T. Savoff and Entergy
 Services (10(a)99 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 98 --

Employment
 Agreement effective February 9, 1999 between Leo P. Denault and Entergy
 Services (10(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 99 --

Amendment
 to Employment Agreement effective March 5, 2004 between Leo P. Denault and
 Entergy Corporation (10(b) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
 2004 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 100 --

Retention
 Agreement effective August 3, 2006 between Leo P. Denault and Entergy
 Corporation (10(b) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

*+(a)
 101 --

Amendment
 to Retention Agreement effective December 16, 2009 between Leo P. Denault
 and Entergy Corporation.

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 102 --

Shareholder
 Approval of Future Severance Agreements Policy, effective March 8, 2004
 (10(f) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 103 --

Consulting
 Agreement effective May 4, 2004 between Hintz & Associates, LLC and
 Entergy Services, Inc. (10(d) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
 2004 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 104 --

Form
 of Stock Option Grant Agreement Letter, as of December 31, 2004 (99.1 to
 Form 8-K dated January 26, 2005 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 105 --

Form
 of Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Unit Grant Letter, as of December
 31, 2004 (99.2 to Form 8-K dated January 26, 2005 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 106 --

Entergy
 Corporation Outside Director Stock Program Established under the 2007
 Equity Ownership and Long Term Cash Incentive Plan of Entergy Corporation
 and Subsidiaries (Amended and Restated effective January 1, 2009) (10(b)
 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 107 --

First
 Amendment to Entergy Corporation Outside Director Stock Program
 Established under the 2007 Equity Ownership and Long Term Cash Incentive
 Plan of Entergy Corporation Subsidiaries (10(a)105 to Form 10-K for the
 year ended December 31, 2008 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 108 --

Rescission
 Agreement effective July 26, 2007 between Richard J. Smith and Entergy
 Services, Inc. (10(d) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(a)
 109 --

Entergy
 Nuclear Retention Plan, as amended and restated January 1, 2007 (10(a)107
 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(a)
 110 --

Form
 of Stock Option Grant Agreement Letter (10(a)108 to Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 2007 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

 

E-16

 

 

 

+(a)
 111 --

Restricted
 Unit Agreement between Leo P. Denault and Entergy Corporation (10(a) to
 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 in
 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

*+(a)
 112 --

Retention
 Agreement effective December 16, 2009 between Richard J. Smith and Entergy
 Corporation.

 
 

System
 Energy

(b)
 1 through

(b)
 17
 -- See
 10(a)8 through 10(a)24 above.

 
 

(b)
 18 through

(b)
 32
 -- See
 10(a)25 through 10(a)39 above.

 
 

(b)
 33 --

Reallocation
 Agreement, dated as of July 28, 1981, among System Energy and certain
 other System companies (B-1(a) in 70-6624).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 34 --

Joint
 Construction, Acquisition and Ownership Agreement, dated as of May 1,
 1980, between System Energy and SMEPA (B-1(a) in 70-6337), as amended by
 Amendment No. 1, dated as of May 1, 1980 (B-1(c) in 70-6337) and
 Amendment No. 2, dated as of October 31, 1980 (1 to Rule 24
 Certificate dated October 30, 1981 in 70-6337).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 35 --

Operating
 Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1980, between System Energy and SMEPA
 (B(2)(a) in 70-6337).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 36 --

Amended
 and Restated Installment Sale Agreement, dated as of February 15, 1996,
 between System Energy and Claiborne County, Mississippi (B-6(a) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated March 4, 1996 in 70-8511).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 37 --

Loan
 Agreement, dated as of October 15, 1998, between System Energy and
 Mississippi Business Finance Corporation (B-6(b) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated November 12, 1998 in 70-8511).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 38 --

Loan
 Agreement, dated as of May 15, 1999, between System Energy and Mississippi
 Business Finance Corporation (B-6(c) to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 8,
 1999 in 70-8511).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 39 --

Facility
 Lease No. 1, dated as of December 1, 1988, between Meridian
 Trust Company and Stephen M. Carta (Stephen J. Kaba, successor), as
 Owner Trustees, and System Energy (B-2(c)(1) to Rule 24 Certificate
 dated January 9, 1989 in 70-7561), as supplemented by Lease
 Supplement No. 1 dated as of April 1, 1989 (B-22(b) (1) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated April 21, 1989 in 70-7561), Lease Supplement No. 2 dated
 as of January 1, 1994 (B-3(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 31,
 1994 in 70-8215), and Lease Supplement No. 3 dated as of May 1, 2004
 (B-3(d) to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 4, 2004 in
 70-10182).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 40 --

Facility
 Lease No. 2, dated as of December 1, 1988 between Meridian Trust
 Company and Stephen M. Carta (Stephen J. Kaba, successor), as Owner
 Trustees, and System Energy (B-2(c)(2) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 January 9, 1989 in 70-7561), as supplemented by Lease Supplement No.
 1 dated as of April 1, 1989 (B-22(b) (2) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 April 21, 1989 in 70-7561), Lease Supplement No. 2 dated as of January 1,
 1994 (B-4(d) Rule 24 Certificate dated January 31, 1994 in 70-8215), and
 Lease Supplement No. 3 dated as of May 1, 2004 (B-4(d) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated June 4, 2004 in
70-10182).

 

E-17

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

(b)
 41 --

Assignment,
 Assumption and Further Agreement No. 1, dated as of December 1, 1988,
 among System Energy, Meridian Trust Company and Stephen M. Carta, and
 SMEPA (B-7(c)(1) to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 9, 1989 in
 70-7561).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 42 --

Assignment,
 Assumption and Further Agreement No. 2, dated as of December 1, 1988,
 among System Energy, Meridian Trust Company and Stephen M. Carta, and
 SMEPA (B-7(c)(2) to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 9, 1989 in
 70-7561).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 43 --

Collateral
 Trust Indenture, dated as of May 1, 2004, among GG1C Funding Corporation,
 System Energy, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee
 (A-3(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 4, 2004 in 70-10182), as
 supplemented by Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated May 1, 2004, (A-4(a) to
 Rule 24 Certificate dated June 4, 2004 in 70-10182).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 44 --

Substitute
 Power Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1980, among Entergy Mississippi,
 System Energy and SMEPA (B(3)(a) in 70-6337).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 45 --

Grand
 Gulf Unit No. 2 Supplementary Agreement, dated as of February 7,
 1986, between System Energy and SMEPA (10(aaa) in
 33-4033).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 46 --

Unit
 Power Sales Agreement, dated as of June 10, 1982, between System Energy
 and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi and Entergy
 New Orleans (10(a)39 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 1982 in 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 47 --

First
 Amendment to the Unit Power Sales Agreement, dated as of June 28,
 1984, between System Energy and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana,
 Entergy Mississippi and Entergy New Orleans (19 to Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended September 30, 1984 in 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 48 --

Revised
 Unit Power Sales Agreement (10(ss) in 33-4033).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 49 --

Fuel
 Lease, dated as of February 24, 1989, between River Fuel Funding
 Company #3, Inc. and System Energy (B-1(b) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated March 3, 1989 in 70-7604).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 50 --

System
 Energy's Consent, dated January 31, 1995, pursuant to Fuel Lease, dated as
 of February 24, 1989, between River Fuel Funding Company #3, Inc. and
 System Energy (B-1(c) to Rule 24 Certificate dated February 13, 1995 in
 70-7604).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 51 --

Sales
 Agreement, dated as of June 21, 1974, between System Energy and
 Entergy Mississippi (D to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 26,
 1974 in 70-5399).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 52 --

Service
 Agreement, dated as of June 21, 1974, between System Energy and Entergy
 Mississippi (E to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 26, 1974 in
 70-5399).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 53 --

Partial
 Termination Agreement, dated as of December 1, 1986, between System Energy
 and Entergy Mississippi (A-2 to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 8,
 1987 in 70-5399).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 54 --

Middle
 South Utilities, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax
 Allocation Agreement, dated April 28, 1988 (D-1 to Form U5S for the year
 ended December 31, 1987).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 55 --

First
 Amendment, dated January 1, 1990 to the Middle South Utilities Inc.
 and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-2
 to Form U5S for the year ended December 31,
 1989).

 
 

 
 

 

E-18

 

 

 

 

(b)
 56 --

Second
 Amendment dated January 1, 1992, to the Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-3 to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1992).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 57 --

Third
 Amendment dated January 1, 1994 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-3(a) to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1993).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 58 --

Fourth
 Amendment dated April 1, 1997 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-5 to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1996).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 59 --

Fifth
 Amendment dated November 20, 2009 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (10(a)56 to Form
 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 60 --

Service
 Agreement with Entergy Services, dated as of July 16, 1974, as amended
 (10(b)43 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988 in
 1-9067).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 61 --

Amendment,
 dated January 1, 2004, to Service Agreement with Entergy Services (10(b)57
 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 in
 1-9067).

 
 

 
 

*(b)
 62 --

Amendment,
 dated June 1, 2009, to Service Agreement with Entergy
 Services.

 
 

 
 

(b)
 63 --

Operating
 Agreement between Entergy Operations and System Energy, dated as of
 June 6, 1990 (B-3(b) to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 15, 1990
 in 70-7679).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 64 --

Guarantee
 Agreement between Entergy Corporation and System Energy, dated as of
 September 20, 1990 (B-3(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 September 27, 1990 in 70-7757).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 65 --

Letter
 of Credit and Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of December 22, 2003,
 among System Energy Resources, Inc., Union Bank of California, N.A., as
 administrating bank and funding bank, Keybank National Association, as
 syndication agent, Banc One Capital Markets, Inc., as documentation agent,
 and the Banks named therein, as Participating Banks (10(b)63 to Form 10-K
 for the year ended December 31, 2003 in 1-9067).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 66 --

Amendment
 to Letter of Credit and Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of December 22,
 2003 (10(b)62 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 in
 1-9067).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 67 --

First
 Amendment and Consent, dated as of May 3, 2004, to Letter of Credit and
 Reimbursement Agreement (10(b)63 to Form 10-K for the year ended December
 31, 2004 in 1-9067).

 
 

 
 

(b)
 68 --

Second
 Amendment and Consent, dated as of December 17, 2004, to Letter of Credit
 and Reimbursement Agreement (99 to Form 8-K dated December 22, 2004 in
 1-9067).

 
 

 
 

*(b)
 69 --

Third
 Amendment and Consent, dated as of May 14, 2009, to Letter of Credit and
 Reimbursement Agreement.

 

E-19

 

 

 

 
 

Entergy
 Arkansas

(c)
 1 --

Agreement,
 dated April 23, 1982, among Entergy Arkansas and certain other System
 companies, relating to System Planning and Development and Intra-System
 Transactions (10(a) 1 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 2 --

Second
 Amended and Restated Entergy System Agency Agreement, dated as of January
 1, 2008 (10(a)2 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 in
 1-10764).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 3 --

Middle
 South Utilities System Agency Coordination Agreement, dated December 11,
 1970 (5(a)3 in 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 4 --

Service
 Agreement with Entergy Services, dated as of April 1, 1963 (5(a)5 in
 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 5 --

Amendment,
 dated April 27, 1984, to Service Agreement, with Entergy Services (10(a)7
 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1984 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 6 --

Amendment,
 dated January 1, 2000, to Service Agreement with Entergy Services (10(a)12
 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 in
 1-10764).

 
 

 
 

*(c)
 7 --

Amendment,
 dated June 1, 2009, to Service Agreement with Entergy
 Services.

 
 

 
 

(c)
 8 through

(c)
 24
 -- See
 10(a)8 through 10(a)24 above.

 
 

(c)
 25 --

Agreement,
 dated August 20, 1954, between Entergy Arkansas and the United States of
 America (SPA)(13(h) in 2-11467).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 26 --

Amendment,
 dated April 19, 1955, to the United States of America (SPA) Contract,
 dated August 20, 1954 (5(d)2 in 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 27 --

Amendment,
 dated January 3, 1964, to the United States of America (SPA) Contract,
 dated August 20, 1954 (5(d)3 in 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 28 --

Amendment,
 dated September 5, 1968, to the United States of America (SPA) Contract,
 dated August 20, 1954 (5(d)4 in 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 29 --

Amendment,
 dated November 19, 1970, to the United States of America (SPA) Contract,
 dated August 20, 1954 (5(d)5 in 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 30 --

Amendment,
 dated July 18, 1961, to the United States of America (SPA) Contract, dated
 August 20, 1954 (5(d)6 in 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 31 --

Amendment,
 dated December 27, 1961, to the United States of America (SPA) Contract,
 dated August 20, 1954 (5(d)7 in 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 32 --

Amendment,
 dated January 25, 1968, to the United States of America (SPA) Contract,
 dated August 20, 1954 (5(d)8 in 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 33 --

Amendment,
 dated October 14, 1971, to the United States of America (SPA) Contract,
 dated August 20, 1954 (5(d)9 in 2-43175).

 
 

 
 

 

E-20

 

 

 

(c)
 34 --

Amendment,
 dated January 10, 1977, to the United States of America (SPA) Contract,
 dated August 20, 1954 (5(d)10 in 2-60233).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 35 --

Agreement,
 dated May 14, 1971, between Entergy Arkansas and the United States of
 America (SPA) (5(e) in 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 36 --

Amendment,
 dated January 10, 1977, to the United States of America (SPA) Contract,
 dated May 14, 1971 (5(e)1 in 2-60233).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 37 --

Contract,
 dated May 28, 1943, Amendment to Contract, dated July 21, 1949, and
 Supplement to Amendment to Contract, dated December 30, 1949, between
 Entergy Arkansas and McKamie Gas Cleaning Company; Agreements, dated as of
 September 30, 1965, between Entergy Arkansas and former stockholders of
 McKamie Gas Cleaning Company; and Letter Agreement, dated June 22, 1966,
 by Humble Oil & Refining Company accepted by Entergy Arkansas on June
 24, 1966 (5(k)7 in 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 38 --

Fuel
 Lease, dated as of December 22, 1988, between River Fuel Trust #1 and
 Entergy Arkansas (B-1(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in
 70-7571).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 39 --

White
 Bluff Operating Agreement, dated June 27, 1977, among Entergy Arkansas and
 Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corporation and City Water and Light Plant
 of the City of Jonesboro, Arkansas (B-2(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 June 30, 1977 in 70-6009).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 40 --

White
 Bluff Ownership Agreement, dated June 27, 1977, among Entergy Arkansas and
 Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corporation and City Water and Light Plant
 of the City of Jonesboro, Arkansas (B-1(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 June 30, 1977 in 70-6009).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 41 --

Agreement,
 dated June 29, 1979, between Entergy Arkansas and City of Conway, Arkansas
 (5(r)3 in 2-66235).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 42 --

Transmission
 Agreement, dated August 2, 1977, between Entergy Arkansas and City Water
 and Light Plant of the City of Jonesboro, Arkansas (5(r)3 in
 2-60233).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 43 --

Power
 Coordination, Interchange and Transmission Service Agreement, dated as of
 June 27, 1977, between Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corporation and
 Entergy Arkansas (5(r)4 in 2-60233).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 44 --

Independence
 Steam Electric Station Operating Agreement, dated July 31, 1979, among
 Entergy Arkansas and Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corporation and City
 Water and Light Plant of the City of Jonesboro, Arkansas and City of
 Conway, Arkansas (5(r)6 in 2-66235).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 45 --

Amendment,
 dated December 4, 1984, to the Independence Steam Electric Station
 Operating Agreement (10(c)51 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
 1984 in 1-10764).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 46 --

Independence
 Steam Electric Station Ownership Agreement, dated July 31, 1979, among
 Entergy Arkansas and Arkansas Electric Cooperative Corporation and City
 Water and Light Plant of the City of Jonesboro, Arkansas and City of
 Conway, Arkansas (5(r)7 in 2-66235).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 47 --

Amendment,
 dated December 28, 1979, to the Independence Steam Electric Station
 Ownership Agreement (5(r)7(a) in 2-66235).

 
 

 
 

 

E-21

 

 

 

(c)
 48 --

Amendment,
 dated December 4, 1984, to the Independence Steam Electric Station
 Ownership Agreement (10(c)54 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
 1984 in 1-10764).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 49 --

Owner's
 Agreement, dated November 28, 1984, among Entergy Arkansas, Entergy
 Mississippi, other co-owners of the Independence Station (10(c)55 to Form
 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1984 in 1-10764).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 50 --

Consent,
 Agreement and Assumption, dated December 4, 1984, among Entergy Arkansas,
 Entergy Mississippi, other co-owners of the Independence Station and
 United States Trust Company of New York, as Trustee (10(c)56 to Form 10-K
 for the year ended December 31, 1984 in 1-10764).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 51 --

Power
 Coordination, Interchange and Transmission Service Agreement, dated as of
 July 31, 1979, between Entergy Arkansas and City Water and Light Plant of
 the City of Jonesboro, Arkansas (5(r)8 in 2-66235).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 52 --

Power
 Coordination, Interchange and Transmission Agreement, dated as of June 29,
 1979, between City of Conway, Arkansas and Entergy Arkansas (5(r)9 in
 2-66235).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 53 --

Agreement,
 dated June 21, 1979, between Entergy Arkansas and Reeves E. Ritchie
 (10(b)90 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1980 in
 1-10764).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 54 --

Reallocation
 Agreement, dated as of July 28, 1981, among System Energy and certain
 other System companies (B-1(a) in 70-6624).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 55 --

Unit
 Power Sales Agreement, dated as of June 10, 1982, between System Energy
 and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy
 New Orleans (10(a)39 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 56 --

First
 Amendment to Unit Power Sales Agreement, dated as of June 28, 1984,
 between System Energy, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy
 Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans (19 to Form 10-Q for the quarter
 ended September 30, 1984 in 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 57 --

Revised
 Unit Power Sales Agreement (10(ss) in 33-4033).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 58 --

Contract
 For Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level Radioactive Waste,
 dated June 30, 1983, among the DOE, System Fuels and Entergy Arkansas
 (10(b)57 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1983 in
 1-10764).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 59 --

Middle
 South Utilities, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax
 Allocation Agreement, dated April 28, 1988 (D-1 to Form U5S for the year
 ended December 31, 1987).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 60 --

First
 Amendment, dated January 1, 1990, to the Middle South Utilities, Inc. and
 Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-2 to
 Form U5S for the year ended December 31,
 1989).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 61 --

Second
 Amendment dated January 1, 1992, to the Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-3 to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1992).

 
 

 
 

 

E-22

 

 

 

(c)
 62 --

Third
 Amendment dated January 1, 1994, to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-3(a) to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1993).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 63 --

Fourth
 Amendment dated April 1, 1997 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-5 to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1996).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 64 --

Fifth
 Amendment dated November 20, 2009 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (10(a)56 to Form
 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 65 --

Assignment
 of Coal Supply Agreement, dated December 1, 1987, between System Fuels and
 Entergy Arkansas (B to Rule 24 letter filing dated November 10, 1987 in
 70-5964).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 66 --

Coal
 Supply Agreement, dated December 22, 1976, between System Fuels and
 Antelope Coal Company (B-1 in 70-5964), as amended by First Amendment (A
 to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-5964); Second Amendment (A to Rule 24 letter
 filing dated December 16, 1983 in 70-5964); and Third Amendment (A to Rule
 24 letter filing dated November 10, 1987 in 70-5964).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 67 --

Operating
 Agreement between Entergy Operations and Entergy Arkansas, dated as of
 June 6, 1990 (B-1(b) to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 15, 1990 in
 70-7679).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 68 --

Guaranty
 Agreement between Entergy Corporation and Entergy Arkansas, dated as of
 September 20, 1990 (B-1(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 September 27, 1990 in 70-7757).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 69 --

Agreement
 for Purchase and Sale of Independence Unit 2 between Entergy Arkansas
 and Entergy Power, dated as of August 28, 1990 (B-3(c) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated September 6, 1990 in 70-7684).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 70 --

Agreement
 for Purchase and Sale of Ritchie Unit 2 between Entergy Arkansas and
 Entergy Power, dated as of August 28, 1990 (B-4(d) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated September 6, 1990 in 70-7684).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 71 --

Ritchie
 Steam Electric Station Unit No. 2 Operating Agreement between Entergy
 Arkansas and Entergy Power, dated as of August 28, 1990 (B-5(a) to
 Rule 24 Certificate dated September 6, 1990 in
 70-7684).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 72 --

Ritchie
 Steam Electric Station Unit No. 2 Ownership Agreement between Entergy
 Arkansas and Entergy Power, dated as of August 28, 1990 (B-6(a) to
 Rule 24 Certificate dated September 6, 1990 in
 70-7684).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 73 --

Power
 Coordination, Interchange and Transmission Service Agreement between
 Entergy Power and Entergy Arkansas, dated as of August 28, 1990
 (10(c)71 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990 in
 1-10764).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 74 --

Loan
 Agreement dated June 15, 1993, between Entergy Arkansas and Independence
 Country, Arkansas (B-1(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated July 9, 1993 in
 70-8171).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 75 --

Loan
 Agreement dated June 15, 1994, between Entergy Arkansas and Jefferson
 County, Arkansas (B-1(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 30, 1994 in
 70-8405).

 
 

 
 

 

E-23

 

 

 

(c)
 76 --

Loan
 Agreement dated June 15, 1994, between Entergy Arkansas and Pope County,
 Arkansas (B-1(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in 70-8405).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 77 --

Loan
 Agreement dated November 15, 1995, between Entergy Arkansas and Pope
 County, Arkansas (10(c)96 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
 1995 in 1-10764).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 78 --

Loan
 Agreement dated December 1, 1997, between Entergy Arkansas and Jefferson
 County, Arkansas (10(c)100 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
 1997 in 1-10764).

 
 

 
 

(c)
 79 --

Refunding
 Agreement, dated December 1, 2001, between Entergy Arkansas and Pope
 Country, Arkansas (10(c)81 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
 2001 in 1-10764).

 
 

Entergy
 Gulf States Louisiana

(d)
 1 --

Guaranty
 Agreement, dated August 1, 1992, between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and
 Hibernia National Bank, relating to Pollution Control Revenue Refunding
 Bonds of the Industrial Development Board of the Parish of Calcasieu, Inc.
 (Louisiana) (10-1 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 2 --

Guaranty
 Agreement, dated January 1, 1993, between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and
 Hancock Bank of Louisiana, relating to Pollution Control Revenue Refunding
 Bonds of the Parish of Pointe Coupee (Louisiana) (10-2 to Form 10-K for
 the year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 3 --

Agreement
 effective February 1, 1964, between Sabine River Authority, State of
 Louisiana, and Sabine River Authority of Texas, and Entergy Gulf States,
 Inc., Central Louisiana Electric Company, Inc., and Louisiana Power &
 Light Company, as supplemented (B to Form 8-K dated May 6, 1964, A to Form
 8-K dated October 5, 1967, A to Form 8-K dated May 5, 1969, and A to Form
 8-K dated December 1, 1969 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 4 --

Joint
 Ownership Participation and Operating Agreement regarding River Bend Unit
 1 Nuclear Plant, dated August 20, 1979, between Entergy Gulf States, Inc.,
 Cajun, and SRG&T; Power Interconnection Agreement with Cajun, dated
 June 26, 1978, and approved by the REA on August 16, 1979, between Entergy
 Gulf States, Inc. and Cajun; and Letter Agreement regarding CEPCO
 buybacks, dated August 28, 1979, between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and
 Cajun (2, 3, and 4, respectively, to Form 8-K dated September 7, 1979 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 5 --

Lease
 Agreement, dated September 18, 1980, between BLC Corporation and Entergy
 Gulf States, Inc. (1 to Form 8-K dated October 6, 1980 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 6 --

Joint
 Ownership Participation and Operating Agreement for Big Cajun, between
 Entergy Gulf States, Inc., Cajun Electric Power Cooperative, Inc., and Sam
 Rayburn G&T, Inc, dated November 14, 1980 (6 to Form 8-K dated January
 29, 1981 in 1-27031); Amendment No. 1, dated December 12, 1980 (7 to Form
 8-K dated January 29, 1981 in 1-27031); Amendment No. 2, dated December
 29, 1980 (8 to Form 8-K dated January 29, 1981 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 7 --

Agreement
 of Joint Ownership Participation between SRMPA, SRG&T and Entergy Gulf
 States, Inc., dated June 6, 1980, for Nelson Station, Coal Unit #6, as
 amended (8 to Form 8-K dated June 11, 1980, A-2-b to Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended June 30, 1982; and 10-1 to Form 8-K dated February 19, 1988
 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

 

E-24

 

 

 

(d)
 8 --

Agreements
 between Southern Company and Entergy Gulf States, Inc., dated February 25,
 1982, which cover the construction of a 140-mile transmission line to
 connect the two systems, purchase of power and use of transmission
 facilities (10-31 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1981 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 9 --

Transmission
 Facilities Agreement between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and Mississippi
 Power Company, dated February 28, 1982, and Amendment, dated May 12, 1982
 (A-2-c to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1982 in 1-27031) and
 Amendment, dated December 6, 1983 (10-43 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 1983 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 10 --

First
 Amended Power Sales Agreement, dated December 1, 1985 between Sabine River
 Authority, State of Louisiana, and Sabine River Authority, State of Texas,
 and Entergy Gulf States, Inc., Central Louisiana Electric Co., Inc., and
 Louisiana Power and Light Company (10-72 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 1985 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

+(d)
 11 --

Deferred
 Compensation Plan for Directors of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and Varibus
 Corporation, as amended January 8, 1987, and effective January 1, 1987
 (10-77 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1986 in 1-27031).
 Amendment dated December 4, 1991 (10-3 to Amendment No. 8 in Registration
 No. 2-76551).

 
 

 
 

+(d)
 12 --

Trust
 Agreement for Deferred Payments to be made by Entergy Gulf States, Inc.
 pursuant to the Executive Income Security Plan, by and between Entergy
 Gulf States, Inc. and Bankers Trust Company, effective November 1, 1986
 (10-78 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1986 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

+(d)
 13 --

Trust
 Agreement for Deferred Installments under Entergy Gulf States, Inc.
 Management Incentive Compensation Plan and Administrative Guidelines by
 and between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and Bankers Trust Company, effective
 June 1, 1986 (10-79 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1986 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

+(d)
 14 --

Nonqualified
 Deferred Compensation Plan for Officers, Nonemployee Directors and
 Designated Key Employees, effective December 1, 1985, as amended,
 continued and completely restated effective as of March 1, 1991 (10-3 to
 Amendment No. 8 in Registration No. 2-76551).

 
 

 
 

+(d)
 15 --

Trust
 Agreement for Entergy Gulf States, Inc. Nonqualified Directors and
 Designated Key Employees by and between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and
 First City Bank, Texas-Beaumont, N.A. (now Texas Commerce Bank), effective
 July 1, 1991 (10-4 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 16 --

Nuclear
 Fuel Lease Agreement between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and River Bend Fuel
 Services, Inc. to lease the fuel for River Bend Unit 1, dated February 7,
 1989 (10-64 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 17 --

Trust
 and Investment Management Agreement between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and
 Morgan Guaranty and Trust Company of New York (the “Decommissioning Trust
 Agreement") with respect to decommissioning funds authorized to be
 collected by Entergy Gulf States, Inc., dated March 15, 1989 (10-66 to
 Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 18 --

Amendment
 No. 2 dated November 1, 1995 between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and Mellon
 Bank to Decommissioning Trust Agreement (10(d)31 to Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 1995 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

 

E-25

 

 

 

(d)
 19 --

Amendment
 No. 3 dated March 5, 1998 between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and Mellon
 Bank to Decommissioning Trust Agreement (10(d)23 to Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 2004 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 20 --

Amendment
 No. 4 dated December 17, 2003 between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and Mellon
 Bank to Decommissioning Trust Agreement (10(d)24 to Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 2004 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 21 --

Amendment
 No. 5 dated December 31, 2007 between Entergy Gulf States Louisiana,
 L.L.C. and Mellon Bank. N.A. to Decommissioning Trust Agreement (10(d)21
 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 in
 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 22 --

Partnership
 Agreement by and among Conoco Inc., and Entergy Gulf States, Inc., CITGO
 Petroleum Corporation and Vista Chemical Company, dated April 28, 1988
 (10-67 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

+(d)
 23 --

Gulf
 States Utilities Company Executive Continuity Plan, dated January 18, 1991
 (10-6 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

+(d)
 24 --

Trust
 Agreement for Entergy Gulf States, Inc. Executive Continuity Plan, by and
 between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and First City Bank, Texas-Beaumont,
 N.A. (now Texas Commerce Bank), effective May 20, 1991 (10-5 to Form 10-K
 for the year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

+(d)
 25 --

Gulf
 States Utilities Board of Directors' Retirement Plan, dated February 15,
 1991 (10-8 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 26 --

Third
 Amendment, dated January 1, 1994, to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-3(a) to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1993).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 27 --

Fourth
 Amendment, dated April 1, 1997, to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-5 to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1996).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 28 --

Fifth
 Amendment dated November 20, 2009 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (10(a)56 to Form
 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 29 --

Refunding
 Agreement dated as of May 1, 1998 between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and
 Parish of Iberville, State of Louisiana (B-3(a) to Rule 24 Certificate
 dated May 29, 1998 in 70-8721).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 30 --

Amendment
 No. 1 effective as of October 31, 2007, to Refunding Agreement dated as of
 May 1, 1998 between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and Parish of Iberville,
 State of Louisiana (10(d)29 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
 2007 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 31 --

Refunding
 Agreement dated as of May 1, 1998 between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and
 Industrial Development Board of the Parish of Calcasieu, Inc. (B-3(b) to
 Rule 24 Certificate dated January 29, 1999 in 70-8721).

 
 

 
 

 

E-26

 

 

 

(d)
 32 --

Amendment
 No. 1 effective as of October 31, 2007, to Refunding Agreement dated as of
 May 1, 1998 between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and Industrial Development
 Board of the Parish of Calcasieu, Inc (10(d)31 to Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 2007 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 33 --

Refunding
 Agreement (Series 1999-A) dated as of September 1, 1999 between Entergy
 Gulf States, Inc. and Parish of West Feliciana, State of Louisiana (B-3(c)
 to Rule 24 Certificate dated October 8, 1999 in
 70-8721).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 34 --

Amendment
 No. 1 effective as of October 31, 2007, to Refunding Agreement (Series
 1999-A) dated as of September 1, 1999 between Entergy Gulf States, Inc.
 and Parish of West Feliciana, State of Louisiana (10(d)33 to Form 10-K for
 the year ended December 31, 2007 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 35 --

Refunding
 Agreement (Series 1999-B) dated as of September 1, 1999 between Entergy
 Gulf States, Inc. and Parish of West Feliciana, State of Louisiana (B-3(d)
 to Rule 24 Certificate dated October 8, 1999 in
 70-8721).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 36 --

Amendment
 No. 1 effective as of October 31, 2007, to Refunding Agreement (Series
 1999-B) dated as of September 1, 1999 between Entergy Gulf States, Inc.
 and Parish of West Feliciana, State of Louisiana (10(d)35 to Form 10-K for
 the year ended December 31, 2007 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 37 --

Debt
 Assumption Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2007, between Entergy Texas
 and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana (4(i) to Form 8-K15D5 dated January 7,
 2008 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 38 --

Instrument
 of Correction dated March 20, 2008, to Debt Assumption Agreement, dated as
 of December 31, 2007, between Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy
 Texas (4(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 in
 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 39 --

Mortgage
 and Security Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2007 (4(ii) to Form
 8-K15D5 dated January 7, 2008 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 40 --

Act
 of Correction to Mortgage and Security Agreement, dated March 20, 2008,
 between Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Texas (4(b) to Form 10-Q
 for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 41 --

Mortgage,
 Deed of Trust and Security Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2007
 (4(iii) - 4(iii)(r) to Form 8-K15D5 dated January 7, 2008 in
 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 42 --

First
 Amendment to Mortgage, Deed of Trust and Security Agreement, dated March
 20, 2008, among Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Texas, and Mark G.
 Otts, as Trustee (4(c) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008
 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 43 --

Operating
 Agreement dated as of January 1, 2008, between Entergy Operations, Inc.
 and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana (10(d)39 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2007 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 44 --

Service
 Agreement dated as of January 1, 2008, between Entergy Services, Inc. and
 Entergy Gulf States Louisiana (10(d)40 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 2007 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

*(d)
 45 --

Amendment,
 dated June 1, 2009, to Service Agreement with Entergy
 Services.

 
 

 
 

 

E-27

 

 

 

(d)
 46 --

Second
 Amended and Restated Entergy System Agency Agreement, dated as of January
 1, 2008 (10(a)2 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 in
 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 47 --

Decommissioning
 Trust Agreement, dated as of December 22, 1997, by and between Cajun
 Electric Power Cooperative, Inc. and Mellon Bank, N.A. with respect to
 decommissioning funds authorized to be collected by Cajun Electric Power
 Cooperative, Inc. and related Settlement Term Sheet (10(d)42 to Form 10-K
 for the year ended December 31, 2007 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 48 --

First
 Amendment to Decommissioning Trust Agreement, dated as of December 23,
 2003, by and among Cajun Electric Power Cooperative, Inc., Mellon Bank,
 N.A., Entergy Gulf States, Inc., and the Rural Utilities Services of the
 United States Department of Agriculture (10(d)43 to Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 2007 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 49 --

Second
 Amendment to Decommissioning Trust Agreement, dated December 31, 2007, by
 and among Cajun Electric Power Cooperative, Inc., Mellon Bank, N.A.,
 Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C., and the Rural Utilities Services of
 the United States Department of Agriculture (10(d)44 to Form 10-K for the
 year ended December 31, 2007 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(d)
 50 --

Amended
 and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Entergy Holdings
 Company LLC dated as of July 29, 2008 (10(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter
 ended September 30, 2008).

 
 

Entergy
 Louisiana

(e)
 1 --

Agreement,
 dated April 23, 1982, among Entergy Louisiana and certain other System
 companies, relating to System Planning and Development and Intra-System
 Transactions (10(a)1 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982, in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 2 --

Second
 Amended and Restated Entergy System Agency Agreement, dated as of January
 1, 2008 (10(a)2 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 in
 1-32718).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 3 --

Middle
 South Utilities System Agency Coordination Agreement, dated December 11,
 1970 (5(a)3 in 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 4 --

Service
 Agreement with Entergy Services, dated as of April 1, 1963 (5(a)5 in
 2-42523).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 5 --

Amendment,
 dated as of April 27, 1984, to Service Agreement with Entergy Services
 (10(a)7 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1984 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 6 --

Amendment,
 dated January 1, 2000, to Service Agreement with Entergy Services (10(e)12
 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 in
 1-8474).

 
 

 
 

*(e)
 7 --

Amendment,
 dated June 1, 2009, to Service Agreement with Entergy
 Services.

 
 

 
 

(e)
 8 through

(e)
 24
 -- See
 10(a)8 through 10(a)24 above.

 
 

 
 

(e)
 25 --

Fuel
 Lease, dated as of January 31, 1989, between River Fuel Company #2, Inc.,
 and Entergy Louisiana (B-1(b) to Rule 24 Certificate in
 70-7580).

 
 

 
 

 

E-28

 

 

 

(e)
 26 --

Reallocation
 Agreement, dated as of July 28, 1981, among System Energy and certain
 other System companies (B-1(a) in 70-6624).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 27 --

Compromise
 and Settlement Agreement, dated June 4, 1982, between Texaco, Inc. and
 Entergy Louisiana (28(a) to Form 8-K dated June 4, 1982 in
 1-8474).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 28 --

Unit
 Power Sales Agreement, dated as of June 10, 1982, between System Energy
 and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi and Entergy
 New Orleans (10(a)39 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 29 --

First
 Amendment to the Unit Power Sales Agreement, dated as of June 28, 1984,
 between System Energy and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy
 Mississippi and Entergy New Orleans (19 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
 September 30, 1984 in 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 30 --

Revised
 Unit Power Sales Agreement (10(ss) in 33-4033).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 31 --

Contract
 for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level Radioactive Waste,
 dated February 2, 1984, among DOE, System Fuels and Entergy Louisiana
 (10(d)33 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1984 in
 1-8474).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 32--

Operating
 Agreement between Entergy Operations and Entergy Louisiana, dated as of
 June 6, 1990 (B-2(c) to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 15,
 1990 in 70-7679).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 33 --

Guarantee
 Agreement between Entergy Corporation and Entergy Louisiana, dated as of
 September 20, 1990 (B-2(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated
 September 27, 1990 in 70-7757).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 34 --

Refunding
 Agreement (Series 1999-A), dated as of June 1, 1999, between Entergy
 Louisiana and Parish of St. Charles, State of Louisiana (B-6(a) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated July 6, 1999 in 70-9141).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 35 --

Amendment
 No. 1 to Refunding Agreement (Series 1999-A), dated as of December 15,
 2005 (B-8(i) to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 10, 2006 in
 70-10324).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 36 --

Refunding
 Agreement (Series 1999-B), dated as of June 1, 1999, between Entergy
 Louisiana and Parish of St. Charles, State of Louisiana (B-6(b) to Rule 24
 Certificate dated July 6, 1999 in 70-9141).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 37 --

Amendment
 No. 1 to Refunding Agreement (Series 1999-B), dated as of December 16,
 2005 (B-8(ii) to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 10, 2006 in
 70-10324).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 38 --

Refunding
 Agreement (Series 1999-C), dated as of October 1, 1999, between Entergy
 Louisiana and Parish of St. Charles, State of Louisiana (B-11(a) to Rule
 24 Certificate dated October 15, 1999 in 70-9141).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 39 --

Amendment
 No. 1 to Refunding Agreement (Series 1999-C), dated as of December 15,
 2005 (B-8(iii) to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 10, 2006 in
 70-10324).

 
 

 
 

(e)
 40 --

Amended
 and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Entergy Holdings
 Company LLC dated as of July 29, 2008 (10(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter
 ended September 30, 2008).

 

E-29

 

 

 

 
 

Entergy
 Mississippi

(f)
 1 --

Agreement
 dated April 23, 1982, among Entergy Mississippi and certain other System
 companies, relating to System Planning and Development and Intra-System
 Transactions (10(a)1 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 2 --

Second
 Amended and Restated Entergy System Agency Agreement, dated as of January
 1, 2008 (10(a)2 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 in
 1-31508).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 3 --

Middle
 South Utilities System Agency Coordination Agreement, dated December 11,
 1970 (5(a)3 in 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 4 --

Service
 Agreement with Entergy Services, dated as of April 1, 1963 (D in
 37-63).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 5 --

Amendment,
 dated April 27, 1984, to Service Agreement with Entergy Services (10(a)7
 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1984 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 6 --

Amendment,
 dated January 1, 2000, to Service Agreement with Entergy Services (10(f)12
 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 in
 1-31508).

 
 

 
 

*(f)
 7 --

Amendment,
 dated June 1, 2009, to Service Agreement with Entergy
 Services.

 
 

 
 

(f)
 8 through

(f)
 24
 -- See
 10(a)8 through 10(a)24 above.

 
 

 
 

(f)
 25 --

Loan
 Agreement, dated as of September 1, 2004, between Entergy Mississippi and
 Mississippi Business Finance Corporation (B-3(a) to Rule 24 Certificate
 dated October 4, 2004 in 70-10157).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 26 --

Refunding
 Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1999, between Entergy Mississippi and
 Independence County, Arkansas (B-6(a) to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 8,
 1999 in 70-8719).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 27 --

Substitute
 Power Agreement, dated as of May 1, 1980, among Entergy Mississippi,
 System Energy and SMEPA (B-3(a) in 70-6337).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 28 --

Amendment,
 dated December 4, 1984, to the Independence Steam Electric Station
 Operating Agreement (10(c)51 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
 1984 in 0-375).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 29 --

Amendment,
 dated December 4, 1984, to the Independence Steam Electric Station
 Ownership Agreement (10(c)54 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
 1984 in 0-375).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 30 --

Owners
 Agreement, dated November 28, 1984, among Entergy Arkansas, Entergy
 Mississippi and other co-owners of the Independence Station (10(c)55 to
 Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1984 in
 0-375).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 31 --

Consent,
 Agreement and Assumption, dated December 4, 1984, among Entergy Arkansas,
 Entergy Mississippi, other co-owners of the Independence Station and
 United States Trust Company of New York, as Trustee (10(c)56 to Form 10-K
 for the year ended December 31, 1984 in 0-375).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 32 --

Reallocation
 Agreement, dated as of July 28, 1981, among System Energy and certain
 other System companies (B-1(a) in 70-6624).

 
 

 
 

 

E-30

 

 

 

+(f)
 33 --

Post-Retirement
 Plan (10(d)24 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1983 in
 0-320).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 34 --

Unit
 Power Sales Agreement, dated as of June 10, 1982, between System Energy
 and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, and Entergy
 New Orleans (10(a)39 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 35 --

First
 Amendment to the Unit Power Sales Agreement, dated as of June 28, 1984,
 between System Energy and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy
 Mississippi, and Entergy New Orleans (19 to Form 10-Q for the quarter
 ended September 30, 1984 in 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 36 --

Revised
 Unit Power Sales Agreement (10(ss) in 33-4033).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 37 --

Sales
 Agreement, dated as of June 21, 1974, between System Energy and Entergy
 Mississippi (D to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 26, 1974 in
 70-5399).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 38 --

Service
 Agreement, dated as of June 21, 1974, between System Energy and Entergy
 Mississippi (E to Rule 24 Certificate dated June 26, 1974 in
 70-5399).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 39 --

Partial
 Termination Agreement, dated as of December 1, 1986, between System Energy
 and Entergy Mississippi (A-2 to Rule 24 Certificate dated January 8, 1987
 in 70-5399).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 40 --

Middle
 South Utilities, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax
 Allocation Agreement, dated April 28, 1988 (D-1 to Form U5S for the year
 ended December 31, 1987).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 41 --

First
 Amendment dated January 1, 1990 to the Middle South Utilities Inc. and
 Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Tax Allocation Agreement (D-2 to
 Form U5S for the year ended December 31, 1989).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 42 --

Second
 Amendment dated January 1, 1992, to the Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-3 to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1992).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 43 --

Third
 Amendment dated January 1, 1994 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-3(a) to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1993).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 44 --

Fourth
 Amendment dated April 1, 1997 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-5 to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1996).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 45 --

Fifth
 Amendment dated November 20, 2009 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (10(a)56 to Form
 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

+(f)
 46 --

Employment
 Agreement effective July 24, 2003 between Carolyn C. Shanks and Entergy
 Mississippi (10(f)48 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 in
 1-31508).

 
 

 
 

(f)
 47 --

Purchase
 and Sale Agreement by and between Central Mississippi Generating Company,
 LLC and Entergy Mississippi, Inc., dated as of March 16, 2005 (10(b) to
 Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 in
 1-31508).

 

E-31

 

 

 

 
 

Entergy
 New Orleans

(g)
 1 --

Agreement,
 dated April 23, 1982, among Entergy New Orleans and certain other System
 companies, relating to System Planning and Development and Intra-System
 Transactions (10(a)1 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 2 --

Second
 Amended and Restated Entergy System Agency Agreement, dated as of January
 1, 2008 (10(a)2 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 in
 0-5807).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 3 --

Middle
 South Utilities System Agency Coordination Agreement, dated December 11,
 1970 (5(a)3 in 2-41080).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 4 --

Service
 Agreement with Entergy Services dated as of April 1, 1963 (5(a)5 in
 2-42523).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 5 --

Amendment,
 dated as of April 27, 1984, to Service Agreement with Entergy Services
 (10(a)7 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1984 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 6 --

Amendment,
 dated January 1, 2000, to Service Agreement with Entergy Services (10(g)12
 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 in
 0-5807).

 
 

 
 

*(g)
 7 --

Amendment,
 dated June 1, 2009, to Service Agreement with Entergy
 Services.

 
 

 
 

(g)
 8 through

(g)
 24
 -- See
 10(a)8 through 10(a)24 above.

 
 

 
 

(g)
 25 --

Reallocation
 Agreement, dated as of July 28, 1981, among System Energy and certain
 other System companies (B-1(a) in 70-6624).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 26 --

Unit
 Power Sales Agreement, dated as of June 10, 1982, between System Energy
 and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi and Entergy
 New Orleans (10(a)39 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982 in
 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 27 --

First
 Amendment to the Unit Power Sales Agreement, dated as of June 28, 1984,
 between System Energy and Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy
 Mississippi and Entergy New Orleans (19 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
 September 30, 1984 in 1-3517).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 28 --

Revised
 Unit Power Sales Agreement (10(ss) in 33-4033).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 29 --

Transfer
 Agreement, dated as of June 28, 1983, among the City of New Orleans,
 Entergy New Orleans and Regional Transit Authority (2(a) to Form 8-K dated
 June 24, 1983 in 1-1319).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 30 --

Middle
 South Utilities, Inc. and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax
 Allocation Agreement, dated April 28, 1988 (D-1 to Form U5S for the year
 ended December 31, 1987).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 31 --

First
 Amendment, dated January 1, 1990, to the Middle South Utilities, Inc.
 and Subsidiary Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-2
 to Form U5S for the year ended December 31,
 1989).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 32 --

Second
 Amendment dated January 1, 1992, to the Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-3 to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1992).

 
 

 
 

 

E-32

 

 

 

(g)
 33 --

Third
 Amendment dated January 1, 1994 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-3(a) to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1993).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 34 --

Fourth
 Amendment dated April 1, 1997 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-5 to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1996).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 35 --

Fifth
 Amendment dated November 20, 2009 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (10(a)56 to Form
 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

(g)
 36 --

Chapter
 11 Plan of Reorganization of Entergy New Orleans, Inc., as modified, dated
 May 2, 2007, confirmed by bankruptcy court order dated May 7, 2007 (2(a)
 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 in
 0-5807).

 

 
 

Entergy
 Texas

(h)
 1 --

Agreement
 effective February 1, 1964, between Sabine River Authority, State of
 Louisiana, and Sabine River Authority of Texas, and Entergy Gulf States,
 Inc., Central Louisiana Electric Company, Inc., and Louisiana Power &
 Light Company, as supplemented (B to Form 8-K dated May 6, 1964, A to Form
 8-K dated October 5, 1967, A to Form 8-K dated May 5, 1969, and A to Form
 8-K dated December 1, 1969 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 2 --

Ground
 Lease, dated August 15, 1980, between Statmont Associates Limited
 Partnership (Statmont) and Entergy Gulf States, Inc., as amended (3 to
 Form 8-K dated August 19, 1980 and A-3-b to Form 10-Q for the quarter
 ended September 30, 1983 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 3 --

Lease
 and Sublease Agreement, dated August 15, 1980, between Statmont and
 Entergy Gulf States, Inc., as amended (4 to Form 8-K dated August 19, 1980
 and A-3-c to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1983 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 4 --

Lease
 Agreement, dated September 18, 1980, between BLC Corporation and Entergy
 Gulf States, Inc. (1 to Form 8-K dated October 6, 1980 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 5 --

Joint
 Ownership Participation and Operating Agreement for Big Cajun, between
 Entergy Gulf States, Inc., Cajun Electric Power Cooperative, Inc., and Sam
 Rayburn G&T, Inc, dated November 14, 1980 (6 to Form 8-K dated January
 29, 1981 in 1-27031); Amendment No. 1, dated December 12, 1980 (7 to Form
 8-K dated January 29, 1981 in 1-27031); Amendment No. 2, dated December
 29, 1980 (8 to Form 8-K dated January 29, 1981 in
 1-27031).

(h)
 6 --

Agreement
 of Joint Ownership Participation between SRMPA, SRG&T and Entergy Gulf
 States, Inc., dated June 6, 1980, for Nelson Station, Coal Unit #6, as
 amended (8 to Form 8-K dated June 11, 1980, A-2-b to Form 10-Q for the
 quarter ended June 30, 1982; and 10-1 to Form 8-K dated February 19, 1988
 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 7 --

First
 Amended Power Sales Agreement, dated December 1, 1985 between Sabine River
 Authority, State of Louisiana, and Sabine River Authority, State of Texas,
 and Entergy Gulf States, Inc., Central Louisiana Electric Co., Inc., and
 Louisiana Power and Light Company (10-72 to Form 10-K for the year ended
 December 31, 1985 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

 

E-33

 

 

 

 

+(h)
 8 --

Deferred
 Compensation Plan for Directors of Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and Varibus
 Corporation, as amended January 8, 1987, and effective January 1, 1987
 (10-77 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1986 in 1-27031).
 Amendment dated December 4, 1991 (10-3 to Amendment No. 8 in Registration
 No. 2-76551).

 
 

 
 

+(h)
 9 --

Trust
 Agreement for Deferred Payments to be made by Entergy Gulf States, Inc.
 pursuant to the Executive Income Security Plan, by and between Entergy
 Gulf States, Inc. and Bankers Trust Company, effective November 1, 1986
 (10-78 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1986 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

+(h)
 10 --

Trust
 Agreement for Deferred Installments under Entergy Gulf States, Inc.
 Management Incentive Compensation Plan and Administrative Guidelines by
 and between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and Bankers Trust Company, effective
 June 1, 1986 (10-79 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1986 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

+(h)
 11 --

Nonqualified
 Deferred Compensation Plan for Officers, Nonemployee Directors and
 Designated Key Employees, effective December 1, 1985, as amended,
 continued and completely restated effective as of March 1, 1991 (10-3 to
 Amendment No. 8 in Registration No. 2-76551).

 
 

 
 

+(h)
 12 --

Trust
 Agreement for Entergy Gulf States, Inc. Nonqualified Directors and
 Designated Key Employees by and between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and
 First City Bank, Texas-Beaumont, N.A. (now Texas Commerce Bank), effective
 July 1, 1991 (10-4 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 13 --

Lease
 Agreement, dated as of June 29, 1987, among GSG&T, Inc., and Entergy
 Gulf States, Inc. related to the leaseback of the Lewis Creek generating
 station (10-83 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

+(h)
 14 --

Gulf
 States Utilities Company Executive Continuity Plan, dated January 18, 1991
 (10-6 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

+(h)
 15 --

Trust
 Agreement for Entergy Gulf States, Inc. Executive Continuity Plan, by and
 between Entergy Gulf States, Inc. and First City Bank, Texas-Beaumont,
 N.A. (now Texas Commerce Bank), effective May 20, 1991 (10-5 to Form 10-K
 for the year ended December 31, 1992 in 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

+(h)
 16 --

Gulf
 States Utilities Board of Directors' Retirement Plan, dated February 15,
 1991 (10-8 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990 in
 1-27031).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 17 --

Third
 Amendment, dated January 1, 1994, to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-3(a) to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1993).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 18 --

Fourth
 Amendment, dated April 1, 1997, to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (D-5 to Form U5S
 for the year ended December 31, 1996).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 19 --

Fifth
 Amendment dated November 20, 2009 to Entergy Corporation and Subsidiary
 Companies Intercompany Income Tax Allocation Agreement (10(a)56 to Form
 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 in 1-11299).

 
 

 
 

 

E-34

 

 

 

(h)
 20 --

Debt
 Assumption Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2007, between Entergy Texas
 and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana (4(i) to Form 8-K dated January 7, 2008
 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 21 --

Instrument
 of Correction dated March 20, 2008, to Debt Assumption Agreement, dated as
 of December 31, 2007, between Entergy Texas and Entergy Gulf States
 Louisiana (4(a) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 in
 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 22 --

Mortgage
 and Security Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2007 (4(ii) to Form 8-K
 dated January 7, 2008 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 23 --

Act
 of Correction to Mortgage and Security Agreement, dated March 20, 2008,
 between Entergy Texas and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana (4(b) to Form 10-Q
 for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 in 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 24 --

Mortgage,
 Deed of Trust and Security Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2007
 (4(iii) - 4(iii)(r) to Form 8-K dated January 7, 2008 in
 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 25 --

First
 Amendment to Mortgage, Deed of Trust and Security Agreement, dated March
 20, 2008, among Entergy Texas, Entergy Gulf States, and Mark G. Otts, as
 Trustee (4(c) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 in
 333-148557).

 
 

 
 

(h)
 26 --

Service
 Agreement dated as of January 1, 2008, between Entergy Services, Inc. and
 Entergy Texas (10(h)25 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008
 in 3-53134).

 
 

 
 

*(h)
 27 --

Amendment,
 dated June 1, 2009, to Service Agreement with Entergy
 Services.

 

 
 

(12)
 Statement Re Computation of Ratios

*(a)

Entergy
 Arkansas' Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges and of
 Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Dividends, as
 defined.

 
 

 
 

*(b)

Entergy
 Gulf States Louisiana's Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
 and of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Distributions, as
 defined.

 
 

 
 

*(c)

Entergy
 Louisiana's Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges and of
 Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Distributions, as
 defined.

 
 

 
 

*(d)

Entergy
 Mississippi's Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges and of
 Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Dividends, as
 defined.

 
 

 
 

*(e)

Entergy
 New Orleans' Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges and of
 Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Dividends, as
 defined.

 
 

 
 

*(f)

Entergy
 Texas' Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges, as
 defined.

 
 

 
 

*(g)

System
 Energy's Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges, as
 defined.

 
 

*(21) Subsidiaries
 of the Registrants

 

E-35

 

 

 

 
 

(23) Consents
 of Experts and Counsel

*(a)

The
 consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP is contained herein at page
 487.

 
 

*(24) Powers
 of Attorney

 
 

(31) Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications

*(a)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for Entergy
 Corporation.

 
 

 
 

*(b)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for Entergy
 Corporation.

 
 

 
 

*(c)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for Entergy Arkansas.

 
 

 
 

*(d)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for Entergy Arkansas.

 
 

 
 

*(e)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for Entergy Gulf States
 Louisiana.

 
 

 
 

*(f)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for Entergy Gulf States
 Louisiana.

 
 

 
 

*(g)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for Entergy
Louisiana.

 
 

 
 

*(h)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for Entergy
Louisiana.

 
 

 
 

*(i)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for Entergy
 Mississippi.

 
 

 
 

*(j)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for Entergy
 Mississippi.

 
 

 
 

*(k)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for Entergy New
 Orleans.

 
 

 
 

*(l)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for Entergy New
 Orleans.

 
 

 
 

*(m)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for Entergy Texas.

 
 

 
 

*(n)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for Entergy Texas.

 
 

 
 

*(o)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for System Energy.

 
 

 
 

*(p)

Rule
 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification for System
 Energy.

 
 

(32) Section
 1350 Certifications

*(a)

Section
 1350 Certification for Entergy Corporation.

 
 

 
 

*(b)

Section
 1350 Certification for Entergy Corporation.

 
 

 
 

*(c)

Section
 1350 Certification for Entergy Arkansas.

 
 

 
 

*(d)

Section
 1350 Certification for Entergy Arkansas.

 
 

 
 

*(e)

Section
 1350 Certification for Entergy Gulf States Louisiana.

 
 

 
 

 

E-36

 

 

 

*(f)

Section
 1350 Certification for Entergy Gulf States Louisiana.

 
 

 
 

*(g)

Section
 1350 Certification for Entergy Louisiana.

 
 

 
 

*(h)

Section
 1350 Certification for Entergy Louisiana.

 
 

 
 

*(i)

Section
 1350 Certification for Entergy Mississippi.

 
 

 
 

*(j)

Section
 1350 Certification for Entergy Mississippi.

 
 

 
 

*(k)

Section
 1350 Certification for Entergy New Orleans.

 
 

 
 

*(l)

Section
 1350 Certification for Entergy New Orleans.

 
 

 
 

*(m)

Section
 1350 Certification for Entergy Texas.

 
 

 
 

*(n)

Section
 1350 Certification for Entergy Texas.

 
 

 
 

*(o)

Section
 1350 Certification for System Energy.

 
 

 
 

*(p)

Section
 1350 Certification for System
Energy.

 
 

(101) XBRL
 Documents

 
 

Entergy
 Corporation

*INS
 -

XBRL
 Instance Document.

 
 

 
 

*SCH
 -

XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.

 
 

 
 

*CAL
 -

XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.

 
 

 
 

*DEF
 -

XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.

 
 

 
 

*LAB
 -

XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.

 
 

 
 

*PRE
 -

XBRL
 Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase
 Document.

 
 

_________________

 
 

* Filed
 herewith.

 
 

+ Management
 contracts or compensatory plans or
arrangements.

E-37