” and throughout Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10 ‑K (“Form 10-K”), as well as in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results. The information provided in this Form 10 ‑K is based upon the facts and circumstances known as of the date of this report, and any forward-looking statements made by us in this Form 10 ‑K speak only as of the date on which they are made. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements after the date of filing this Form 10-K with the SEC to reflect events or circumstances after such date, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. ﻿ We have made available our investor presentation regarding the financial results for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2019. Please visit Paychex's Investor Relations page on our website at http://www.paychex.com/investors to view the presentation. We intend to make future investor presentations available exclusively through our Investor Relations page . ﻿ ﻿ 2 Table of Contents Item 1. Business Incorporated in Delaware in 1979, we are a leading provider of integrated human capital management (“HCM”) solutions for payroll, benefits, human resource (“HR”), and insurance services for small- to medium-sized businesses. As of May 31, 2019 , we served approximately 670,000 payroll and PEO clients. We maintain our corporate headquarters in Rochester, New York, and serve clients throughout the U.S. and Europe. We report our results of operations and financial condition as one business segment. Our fiscal year ends May 31st. Company Strategy Our mission is to be the leading provider of HCM solutions for payroll, benefits, HR, and insurance services for small- to medium-sized businesses by being an essential partner with America’s businesses. We believe that success in this mission will lead to strong, long-term financial performance. Our business strategy focuses on the following: We do this through the Power of Simplicity. Our industry-leading technology combines with our personalized, technology-enabled service to make payroll, benefits, and HR administration simple for our clients. Our Clients The target market for our integrated HCM solutions is the small- to mid-market space. Within this space, we serve a diverse base of small- to medium-sized clients operating in a broad range of industries located throughout the U.S. and Europe. Our clients have the option to select the HCM modules they need with the ability to easily add services as they grow. They can also opt for our comprehensive HR and payroll outsourcing solutions, which include our HR Solutions, an Administrative Services Organization (“ASO”) and our PEO services. This flexibility allows our clients to define the solution that best meets their needs. We utilize service agreements and arrangements with clients that are generally terminable by the client at any time or upon relatively short notice. For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2019 (“fiscal 2019 ”), client retention was over 8 2 % of our beginning client base for the fiscal year, in line with our historic best retention rate. We support our small-business clients, reducing the complexity and risk of running their own payroll, while ensuring greater accuracy with up-to-date tax rates and regulatory information. We simplify their payroll with a combination of our dynamic products and customer service options for a quick and easy payday. Clients can choose to have our service team handle everything for them, or can process payroll themselves utilizing our robust Paychex Flex ® processing platform or SurePayroll ® online applications. Both products are cloud-based software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) solutions that allow users to process payroll when they want, how they want, and on any device (desktop, tablet, and mobile phone). With an environment of increasing regulations, the need for HR outsourcing services is moving down-market. Our small-business clients benefit from our time and attendance products, which allow them to accurately and efficiently manage the gathering and recording of employee hours worked. Our advanced suite of time and attendance products, including web and mobile tools, assist companies with the scheduling, tracking, and reporting of time. In addition, our small-market clients can choose one of our comprehensive HR and payroll outsourcing services, which include ASO and PEO services, and participate in our benefits offerings, which include our insurance and retirement services. Our insurance services simplify the insurance process to make it easy to find plans with the features and affordability to meet the client’s needs. Our retirement services product line offers many plan design options to meet the client’s requirements, as well as investment options. Our mid-market clients have more complex payroll and employee benefit needs. Our mid-market clients are serviced through our Paychex Flex Enterprise solution, which offers an integrated suite of HCM solutions on the Paychex Flex platform, or through our legacy platform. Most new clients are sold on the Paychex Flex platform. Clients using Paychex Flex Enterprise are offered a SaaS solution that integrates payroll processing with HR management, employee benefits administration, time and labor management, applicant tracking, and onboarding solutions. Paychex Flex Enterprise allows mid-market clients to choose the services and software they need to meet the complexity of their business and all integrated into one HCM solution. 3 Table of Contents Description of Services We offer a comprehensive portfolio of HCM services and products that allow our clients to meet their diverse payroll and HR needs. Clients can select services on an á la carte basis or as part of various product bundles. Our offerings often leverage the information gathered in our base payroll processing service, allowing us to provide comprehensive outsourcing services covering the HCM spectrum. Our portfolio of HCM and employee benefit-related services are comprised of the following: Management Solutions: ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ 4 Table of Contents PEO and Insurance Services: ﻿ 5 Table of Contents Technology and Service Platform Paychex Flex is our proprietary HCM SaaS platform through which we provide an integrated product suite that covers the employee life cycle from recruiting and hiring to retirement. Paychex Flex streamlines workforce management through innovative technology and flexible choice of service. It uses a single cloud-based platform, with single client and employee records and single sign-on, including self-service options and mobility applications. The HCM product suite integrates recruiting and applicant tracking, employee onboarding, payroll, employee benefits and HR administration, time and attendance, and retirement services. In addition, Paychex Flex presents function-focused analytics throughout the platform, assisting HR leaders with making more informed business decisions. Paychex Flex also provides technology-enabled service, with options that include self-service, a 24/7 dedicated service center, an individual payroll specialist, and integrated service via a multi-product service center. In addition, mid-market clients can utilize a relationship manager for more personalized service. This flexible platform services our small- to medium-sized clients, and a portion of our PEO business. Our platform is backed by self-service capabilities that empower client employees to access their benefits and complete tasks from any location and on any device. These self-service capabilities allow for greater convenience for client employees and greater productivity for our clients. We continue to in vest in Paychex Flex , making significant enhancements designed to simplify the complexity of HR administration. The latest enhancements include HR Center with performance and learning management, workflow approvals, and enhanced real-time analytics ; benefits management enhancements with a refreshed enrollment experience for health and benefits and retirement; and increased options through the use of chatbots and artificial intelligence. The integration of flexible service options and leading-edge technology allows us to meet our clients' diverse needs by providing them with information and products when, where, and how they want it. Our Paychex mobile applications add greater value and convenience for our clients and their employees by allowing them instant access and increased productivity. Paychex Flex uses a mobile-first design throughout our HCM suite, which allows full functionality of all application components, regardless of device or screen size. Enabling our clients and their employees to have full access to our products offers diverse capabilities and flexibility for both the employer and employee. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our services primarily through our direct sales force based in the metropolitan markets we serve. Our direct sales force includes sales representatives who have defined geographical territories and specialize within our portfolio of services. Our sales representatives are also supported by marketing, advertising, public relations, trade shows, and telemarketing programs. We utilize a virtual sales force to service geographical areas where we may not have a local presence, cover inbound leads for certain small-business clients, and for products for which we do not have a local sales force. In addition to our direct selling and marketing efforts, we utilize other indirect sales channels such as our relationships with existing clients, certified public accountants (“CPAs”), and banks for new client referrals. Approximately 50% of our new small-market payroll clients (excluding business acquisitions) come from these referral sources. Our dedicated business development group drives sales through banking, national associations, and franchise channels. We also utilize digital marketing as a means to market our services. We have a long-standing partnership with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) as the preferred payroll provider for its AICPA Business Solutions TM Program. Our current partnership agreement with the AICPA is in place through September 2021. We also partner with numerous state CPA society organizations. Our website is available at www.paychex.com . It is a cost-efficient channel that serves as a source of leads and new sales, while complementing the efforts of our direct and virtual sales forces. This online channel allows us to market to existing and prospective clients that want to learn more about our products and services. The website offers information ab out our core lines of business: p ayrol l ( www.paychex.com/payroll ), human resources ( www.paychex.com/human-resources ), b enefits ( www.paychex.com/employee-benefits ), and i nsurance ( www.paychex.com/business-insurance ). Paychex also builds on its reputation as an expert in the HCM industry by providing education and assistance to clients and other interested parties. We provide free webinars, white papers, and other information on our website to aid existing and prospective clients with the impact of regulatory change as well as HR and business best practices. Paychex WORX website, available at www.paychex.com/worx , is a digital destination for insightful resources useful for businesses at every stage, from entrepreneur to enterprise. Paychex WORX highlights our expertise, and ability to help businesses of all sizes with a wide range of HR and financial information for current clients and prospects alike. 6 Table of Contents We also track current regulatory issues that impact the business community and provide regulatory updates. We issue small business trend reports through our Paychex | IHS Markit Small Business Employment Watch. Our Paychex Accountant Knowledge Center is a free online resource available through our website that brings valuable information and time-saving online tools to accounting professionals. Through the Paychex Flex online platform, AccountantHQ offers access to authorized client payroll and HR data and key account contacts, along with an extensive accountant resource library. AccountantHQ drives efficiency by putting accountants in the best position possible to easily access critical client payroll and HR data, as well as powerful reporting tools. Markets and Competition We remain focused on servicing small- to medium-sized businesses based upon the growth potential that we believe exists in the markets we serve. Our internal database source indicates that there are over 10 million addressable businesses in the geographic markets that we currently serve. The market for HCM services is highly competitive and fragmented. We have one primary national competitor and we also compete with other national, international, regional, local, and online service providers. In addition to traditional payroll processing and HR service providers, we compete with in-house payroll and HR systems and departments. Payroll and HR systems and software are sold by many vendors. Our products also compete with a variety of providers of HR services, such as retirement services companies, insurance companies, HR and benefits consulting firms, and national and regional PEOs. Competition in the payroll processing and HR services industry is primarily based on service responsiveness, product quality and reputation, including ease of use and accessibility of technology, breadth of service and product offerings, and price. We believe we are competitive in each of these areas. We believe that our leading-edge technology and mobility applications, combined with personalized service provided by industry professionals, distinguishes us from our competitors. Software Maintenance and Development The ever-changing mandates of federal, state, and local tax and regulatory agencies require us to regularly update our proprietary software to provide payroll and HR services to our clients. We are continually engaged in developing enhancements to and maintaining our various software platforms to meet the changing requirements of our clients and the marketplace. We continue to enhance our SaaS solutions and mobility applications to offer our users an integrated and unified experience. Continued enhancement of the client and client employee experience is important to our future success. Employees We believe our ability to attract and retain qualified employees in all areas of our business is important to our future success and growth. As of May 31, 2019, we employed approximately 15,600 people, of which approximately 15,300 people were employed on a full-time basis. None of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Intellectual Property We own or license and use a number of trademarks, trade names, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets, computer programs and software, and other intellectual property rights. Taken as a whole, our intellectual property rights are material to the conduct of our business. Where it is determined to be appropriate, we take measures to protect our intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements or policies with employees, vendors, and others; license agreements with licensees and licensors of intellectual property; and registration of certain trademarks. We believe that the “Paychex” name, trademark, and logo are of material importance to us. Seasonality There is no significant seasonality to our business. However, during our third fiscal quarter, which ends in February, the number of new payroll clients, new retirement services clients, and new worksite employees associated with our HR Solutions ASO and PEO businesses tends to be higher than during the rest of the fiscal year, primarily because many new clients prefer to start using our services at the beginning of a calendar year. In addition, calendar year-end transaction processing and client funds activity are traditionally higher during our third fiscal quarter due to clients paying year-end bonuses, clients requesting additional year-end services, and the preparation and delivery of end-of year reporting requirements. 7 Table of Contents Available Information We are subject to the informational and reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. The SEC maintains a website ( www.sec.gov ) that includes our reports, proxy statements, and other information. Our corporate website, www.paychex.com , provides materials for investors and information about our services. Our Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other SEC filings, as well as any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act , are made available, free of charge, on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into our Form 10-K. Also, copies of our Annual Report to Stockholders and Proxy Statement, to be issued in connection with our 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, will be made available, free of charge, upon written request submitted to Paychex, Inc., c/o Corporate Secretary, 911 Panorama Trail South, Rochester, New York 14625-2396. Item 1 A . Risk Factors Our future results of operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and current results, and from our projections. The risk factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our business and are important to understanding our business. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect, possibly to a material extent, our business, cash flows, financial condition, or results of operations in future periods. In addition, you should refer to the cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements at the beginning of Part I of this Form 10-K. Our business, services, and financial condition may be adversely impacted by changes in government regulations and policies . Many of our services, particularly payroll tax administration services and employee benefit plan administration services, are designed according to government regulations that often change. Changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required, or may choose, to provide employees or the amount and type of taxes employers and employees are required to pay. Such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services and substantially decrease our revenue. Added requirements could also increase our cost of doing business. Failure to educate and assist our clients regarding new or revised legislation that impacts them could have an adverse impact on our reputation. Failure by us to modify our services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business and reputation may be adversely impacted if we fail to comply with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations . Our services are subject to various laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the ACA and Anti-Money Laundering rules. The growth of our international operations via acquisition also subjects us to additional risks, such as compliance with foreign laws and regulations. The enactment of new laws and regulations, modifications of existing laws and regulations, or the adverse application or interpretation of new or existing laws or regulations can adversely affect our business. There is uncertainty regarding the potential future evolution and modification of the ACA. Failure to update our services to comply with modified or new legislation in the area of health care reform as well as failure to educate and assist our clients regarding this legislation could adversely impact our business reputation and negatively impact our client base. Failure to comply with laws and regulations could result in the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, as a U.S. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). A violation of a sanction or embargo program or of the FCPA or similar laws prohibiting certain payments to governmental officials, could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties which could adversely impact our business and operations. 8 Table of Contents We may not be able to keep pace with changes in technology or provide timely enhancements to our products and services . The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological advancements, changes in customer requirements, frequent new product introductions, and enhancements and changing industry standards. To maintain our growth strategy, we must adapt and respond to technological advances and technological requirements of our clients. Our future success will depend on our ability to: enhance our current products and introduce new products in order to keep pace with products offered by our competitors; enhance capabilities and increase the performance of our internal systems, particularly our systems that meet our clients’ requirements; and adapt to technological advancements and changing industry standards. We continue to make significant investments related to the development of new technology. If our systems become outdated, it may negatively impact our ability to meet performance expectations related to quality, time to market, cost and innovation relative to our competitors. The failure to provide more efficient and user-friendly customer-facing digital experience across internet and mobile platforms as well as in physical locations may adversely impact our business and operating results. There can be no assurance that our efforts to update and integrate systems will be successful. If we do not integrate and update our systems in a timely manner, or if our investments in technology fail to provide the expected results, there could be a material adverse effect to our business and results of operations. The failure to continually develop enhancements and use of technologies such as robotics and other workflow automation tools, natural language processing, and artificial intelligence/machine learning may impact our ability to increase the efficiency of and reduce costs associated with operational risk management and compliance activities. Our reputation, results of operations, or financial condition may be adversely impacted if we fail to comply with data privacy laws and regulations. Our services require the storage and transmission of proprietary and confidential information of our clients and their employees, including personal or identifying information, as well as their financial and payroll data. Our applications are subject to various complex government laws and regulations on the federal, state, and local levels, including those governing personal privacy. In the U.S., we are subject to rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, the ACA, federal and state labor and employment laws, and state data breach notification laws. In addition, the European Union’s General Data Privacy Regulation became fully effective in May 2018. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The regulatory framework for privacy issues is rapidly evolving and future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, or regulations and/or future enforcement actions or investigations could have a materially adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our business and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. We could be subject to reduced revenues, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position as a result of cyberattacks, security vulnerabilities or Internet disruptions. We rely upon information technology (“IT”) networks, cloud-based platforms, and systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to support a variety of business processes, some of which are provided by third party vendors. Cyberattacks and security threats are a risk to our business and reputation. A cyberattack, unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption or outage, corruption of data, or theft of personal or other sensitive information, could have a material adverse effect on our business operations or that of our clients, result in liability or regulatory sanction, or cause harm to our business and reputation and result in a loss in confidence in our ability to serve clients all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The rapid speed of disruptive innovations involving cyberattacks, security vulnerabilities and Internet disruptions enabled by new and emerging technologies may outpace our organization's ability to compete and/or manage the risk appropriately. Data Security and Privacy Leaks : We collect, use, and retain increasingly large amounts of personal information about our clients, employees of our clients, and our employees, including: bank account numbers, credit card numbers, social security numbers, tax return information, health care information, retirement account information, payroll information, system and network passwords, and other sensitive personal and business information. At the same time, the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. Vulnerabilities, threats, and more sophisticated and targeted computer crimes pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. 9 Table of Contents Our service platforms enable our clients to store and process personal data on premise or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment that we host. The security of our IT infrastructure is an important consideration in our customers’ purchasing decisions. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, are increasingly more complex and sophisticated and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable or fail to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate or timely preventative or responsive measures. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we are focused on ensuring that our operating environments safeguard and protect personal and business information. We may be required to invest significant additional resources to comply with evolving cybersecurity regulations and to modify and enhance our information security and controls, and to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. While we have security systems and IT infrastructure in place designed to detect and protect against unauthorized access to such information, if our security measures are breached, our business could be substantially harmed and we could incur significant liabilities. Any such breach or unauthorized access could negatively affect our ability to attract new clients, cause existing clients to terminate their agreements with us, result in reputational damage, and subject us to lawsuits, regulatory fines, or other actions or liabilities which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Third parties, including vendors that provide services for our operations, could also be a source of security risk to us in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure. Data Loss and Business Interruption : If our systems are disrupted or fail for any reason, including Internet or systems failure, or if our systems are infiltrated by unauthorized persons, both the Company and our clients could experience data loss, financial loss, harm to reputation, or significant business interruption. Hardware, applications and services, including cloud-based services, that we develop or procure from third party vendors may contain defects in design or other problems that could compromise the integrity and availability of our services. Any delays or failures caused by network outages, software or hardware failures, or other data processing disruptions, could result in our inability to provide services in a timely fashion or at all. We may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by disruptions or security breaches in the future. Such events may expose us to unexpected liability, litigation, regulatory investigation and penalties, loss of clients’ business, unfavorable impact to business reputation, and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In the event of a catastrophe, our business continuity plan may fail, which could result in the loss of client data and adversely interrupt operations. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our infrastructure against damage from catastrophe or natural disaster, severe weather including events resulting from climate change, unauthorized security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attack, or other events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. We have a business continuity plan in place in the event of system failure due to any of these events. Our business continuity plan has been tested in the past by circumstances of severe weather, including hurricanes, floods, and snowstorms, and has been successful. However, these past successes are not an indicator of success in the future. If the business continuity plan is unsuccessful in a disaster recovery scenario, we could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients. We may be adversely impacted by any failure of third-party service providers to perform their functions. As part of providing services to clients, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. These service providers include, but are not limited to, couriers used to deliver client payroll checks and banks used to electronically transfer funds from clients to their employees. Failure by these service providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely manner and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in material interruptions to our operations, impact client relations, and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. We may be exposed to additional risks related to our co-employment relationship within our PEO business. Our acquisition of Oasis in December 2018 strengthened our presence in the PEO industry. Many federal and state laws that apply to the employer-employee relationship do not specifically address the obligations and responsibilities of the “co-employment” relationship within our PEO business. State and federal positions regarding co-employment relationships are in a constant state of flux and have changed with varying degrees of impact on our operations. We cannot predict when changes will occur or forecast whether any particular future changes will be favorable or unfavorable to our operations. There is a possibility that we may be subject to liability for violations of employment or discrimination laws by our clients and acts or omissions of client employees, who may be deemed to be our agents, even if we do not participate in any such acts or violations. Although our agreements with clients provide that they will indemnify us for any liability attributable to their own or their employees’ conduct, we may not be able to effectively enforce or collect such contractual obligations. In addition, we could be subject to liabilities with respect to our employee benefit plans if it were determined that we are not the “employer” under any applicable state or federal laws. Incurring additional liabilities related to our PEO business may adversely affect our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents We may be adversely impacted by changes in health insurance and workers’ compensation rates and underlying claims trends. Within our PEO business, we maintain health and workers’ compensation insurance covering worksite employees. The insurance costs are impacted by claims experience and are a significant portion of our PEO costs. If we experience a sudden or unexpected increase in claims activity, our costs could increase. In addition, in the event of expiration or cancellation of existing contracts, we may not be able to secure replacement contracts on competitive terms. Also, as a co-employer in the PEO, we assume or share many of the employer-related responsibilities associated with health care reform, which may result in increased costs. Increases in costs not incorporated into service fees timely or fully could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Incorporating cost increases into service fees could also impact our ability to attract and retain clients. Our clients could have insufficient funds to cover payments we have made on their behalf, resulting in financial loss to us. As part of the payroll processing service, we are authorized by our clients to transfer money from their accounts to fund amounts owed to their employees and various taxing authorities. It is possible that we could be held liable for such amounts in the event the client has insufficient funds to cover them. We have in the past, and may in the future, make payments on our clients’ behalf for which we may not be reimbursed, resulting in loss to us. Our interest earned on funds held for clients may be impacted by changes in government regulations mandating the amount of tax withheld or timing of remittance. We receive interest income from investing client funds collected but not yet remitted to applicable tax or regulatory agencies or to client employees. A change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to applicable tax or regulatory agencies could adversely impact interest income. We may be adversely impacted by volatility in the political and economic environment. Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and variability. When there is a slowdown in the economy, employment levels and interest rates may decrease or become more volatile. These conditions may impact our business due to lower transaction volumes or an increase in the number of clients going out of business. Current or potential clients may decide to reduce their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services. In addition, new business formation may be affected by an inability to obtain credit. We invest our funds held for clients in high quality, investment-grade marketable securities, money markets, and other cash equivalents. However, these funds held for clients are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated during periods of unusual financial market volatility. The interest we earn on funds held for clients may decrease as a result of a decline in funds available to invest and lower interest rates. In addition, during periods of volatility in the credit markets, certain types of investments may not be available to us or may become too risky for us to invest in, further reducing the interest we may earn on client funds. Constriction in the credit markets may impact the availability of financing, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings. Historically, we have periodically borrowed against available credit arrangements to meet short-term liquidity needs. However, should we require additional short-term liquidity during days of large outflows of client funds, a credit constriction may limit our ability to access those funds or the flexibility to obtain them at interest rates that would be acceptable to us. Growth in services for funding payrolls of our clients in the temporary staffing industry may be constricted if access to financing becomes limited. In addition, our ability to grow through significant acquisitions may be limited. See also “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” If all of these financial and economic circumstances were to remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions that involve numerous risks and uncertainties. Acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities, and difficulties in integrating operations. Successful integration involves many challenges, including the difficulty of developing and marketing new products and services, our exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, and the loss of key employees of an acquired business. The integration and conversion of our acquired operations or other future acquisitions, if any, could result in increased operating costs if the anticipated synergies of operating these businesses as one are not achieved, a loss of strategic opportunities if management is distracted by the integration process, and a loss of customers if our service levels drop during or following the integration process. In addition, an acquisition could adversely impact cash flows and/or operating results, and dilute stockholder interests, for many reasons, including charges to our income to reflect the impairment of acquired intangible assets including goodwill, interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred in connection with an acquisition, and any issuance of securities in connection with an acquisition or new business venture that dilutes or lessens the rights of our current stockholders. If the integration of any or all of our acquisitions or future acquisitions is not successful, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price. ﻿ 11 Table of Contents Certain of our debt agreements contain covenants that may constrain the operation of our business, and our failure to comply with these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition . The Note Purchase and Guarantee Agreement that we entered into in January 2019 in connection with our acquisition of Oasis, contains restrictive covenants which may restrict our flexibility to operate our business. These covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens and indebtedness, substantial changes in the general nature of our business and our subsidiaries (taken as a whole), certain merger transactions, certain sales of assets and other matters, all subject to certain exceptions. The financial covenants, which are based on quarterly financial tests, require us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 3.50:1.00 and a minimum interest coverage ratio of 2.00:1.00. In addition, we will not permit certain of our indebtedness to exceed 20% of our consolidated stockholders’ equity. If we do not comply with these covenants, it could result in material and adverse effects on our operating results and our financial condition. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified people, which could impact the quality of our services and customer satisfaction. Our success, growth, and financial results depend in part on our continuing ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified people at all levels, including management, technical, compliance, and sales personnel. Competition for these individuals can be intense, and we may not be able to retain our key people, or attract, assimilate, or retain other highly-qualified individuals in the future, which could harm our future success. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our competitive position and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, we may be unable to do so effectively in all cases. Our intellectual property could be wrongfully acquired as a result of a cyberattack or other wrongful conduct by employees or third parties. To the extent that our intellectual property is not protected effectively by trademarks, copyrights, patents, or other means, other parties with knowledge of our intellectual property, including former employees, may seek to exploit our intellectual property for their own and others’ advantage. Competitors may also misappropriate our trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights or duplicate our technology and products. Any significant impairment or misappropriation of our intellectual property or proprietary information could harm our business and our brand, and may adversely affect our ability to compete. In the event we receive negative publicity, our reputation and the value of our brand could be harmed and clients may not use our products and services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Negative publicity relating to events or activities attributed to us, our corporate employees, or others associated with us, whether or not justified, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. If we are unable to maintain quality HCM solutions and PEO services, our reputation with our clients may be harmed and the value of our brand may diminish. In addition, if our brand is negatively impacted, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, including challenges retaining clients or attracting new clients and recruiting talent and retaining employees. We are involved in litigation from time to time arising from the operation of our business and, as such, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees, or other costs. We are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees, or other third parties for various actions. From time to time, we are involved in litigation involving claims related to, among other things, breach of contract, tortious conduct, and employment and labor law matters. The damages sought against us in some of these litigation proceedings could be substantial. Although we maintain liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk : Refer to Item 7A of this Form 10-K for a discussion on Market Risk Factors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.