” of this annual report on Form 10-K. The forward-looking statements included here are only made as of the date of this report, and management undertakes no obligation to publicly update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as may be required by law. Investors are cautioned not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented here. The Company also routinely posts important information for investors on its website at www.idexcorp.com under “Investors.” The Company may use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD adopted by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of the Company’s website noted above, in addition to following the Company’s press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto shall not be deemed to be incorporated into this annual report on Form 10-K. Table of Conten t s PART I 1 Table of Contents 2 Item 1. Business. Overview IDEX Corporation (“IDEX,” the “Company,” “we,” or “our”) is a global applied solutions provider serving niche markets with mission critical components for everyday life. Substantially all of the Company’s business activities are carried out through over 50 wholly-owned subsidiaries with shared values of Trust, Team and Excellence. IDEX’s diverse family of businesses is committed to making trusted solutions that improve lives and is innovative and inquisitive in its quest to solve customers’ most challenging applied technology problems. These businesses operate with a high degree of autonomy, yet are all united by employing The IDEX Difference, a philosophy of great teams who embrace the 80/20 principle while remaining hyper-focused on serving customers. IDEX was incorporated in Delaware on September 24, 1987. End Markets and Products The following table summarizes the percentage of total IDEX sales generated by each end market served: The Company has three reportable segments: Fluid & Metering Technologies (“FMT”), Health & Science Technologies (“HST”) and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products (“FSDP”). The segments are structured around how to best serve customer needs, with each segment consisting of businesses that have product and end market similarities as well as common distribution methods and production processes. This structure enables management efficiency, aligns IDEX’s operations with its focus on organic growth, strategic acquisitions and capital allocation priorities and provides transparency about the Company’s performance to external stakeholders. The table below illustrates the share of Net sales and Adjusted EBITDA contributed by each segment on the basis of total segments (not total Company) for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023. 3 (1) Segment Adjusted EBITDA excludes the impact of unallocated corporate costs of $93.0 million and $84.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. IDEX believes that each of its reporting units is a leader in its products and services. The Company also believes that its strong financial performance has been attributable to its ability to design and engineer specialized quality products coupled with its ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate strategic acquisitions. The table below illustrates the three reportable segments and the reporting units within each segment. FLUID & METERING TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT The FMT segment designs, produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, valves, small volume provers, flow meters, injectors and other fluid-handling pump modules and systems and provides flow monitoring and other services. The following table summarizes the percentage of total FMT sales generated by each end market served: The following discussion describes the reporting units included in the FMT segment: Pumps. Pumps is a leading manufacturer of positive displacement pumps including rotary internal gear, external gear, vane and rotary lobe pumps, custom-engineered original equipment manufacturer pumps, strainers, gear reducers and engineered pump systems. Pumps primarily uses independent distributors to market and sell its products. Pumps is comprised of the following businesses: • Viking Pump is a global leader in pumping solutions, with products including internal gear, external gear, vane, lobe and circumferential piston pumps, as well as parts, kits and accessories designed to support customers worldwide. 4 With a focus on industrial applications like chemicals, polyurethane foam and asphalt; energy applications like oil transfer and glycol dehydration; and hygienic applications like biopharma, food and beverage, Viking Pump delivers proven liquid transfer pumping solutions for a wide variety of thin to viscous applications. Viking Pump maintains operations in Cedar Falls, Iowa, with locations in Windsor, Canada (Viking Pump Canada), Shannon, Ireland (IDEX Pump Technologies) and Eastbourne, England (Viking Pump Hygienic). • Warren Rupp manufactures air and electrically-operated double diaphragm pump products (which includes Sandpiper, Versamatic and Cognito products) used for abrasive and semisolid materials as well as for applications where product degradation is a concern. Warren Rupp products primarily serve the chemical, paint, food processing, electronics, construction, utilities, oil and gas, mining and industrial maintenance markets. Warren Rupp maintains primary operations in Mansfield, Ohio. • ABEL designs and manufactures highly engineered reciprocating positive displacement pumps used for mine dewatering, back filling, transfer of mine tailings, municipal sledge and wastewater applications in a variety of end markets including mining, power, water and wastewater as well as other general industries. ABEL maintains operations in Büchen, Germany and Mansfield, Ohio and has facilities in Madrid, Spain and Mumbai, India. Water. Water is a leading provider of metering technology, flow monitoring products and underground surveillance services for wastewater markets, as well as alloy and non-metallic gear pumps and peristaltic pumps. Water is comprised of the following businesses: • ADS’ products and services provide comprehensive integrated solutions that enable industry, municipalities and government agencies to analyze and measure the capacity, quality and integrity of wastewater collection systems, including the maintenance and construction of such systems. ADS maintains operations in Huntsville, Alabama and various other locations in the United States, Canada and Australia. • iPEK, Envirosight and WinCan combined are the leading providers of integrated solutions for managing the complete lifecycle of water infrastructure assets and process workflows. Their products and solutions include sewer crawlers, inspection and monitoring systems and software applications that allow teams to identify, anticipate and correct water system issues, automate and simplify inspection processes, improve infrastructure asset management and support distributed teams and cloud-based collaboration. MyTana and Pipeline Renewal Technologies design and build products used to clean and repair infrastructure in the sewer and drain industry. iPEK maintains operations in Hirschegg, Austria and Sulzberg, Germany. Envirosight and Pipeline Renewal Technologies maintain operations in Randolph, New Jersey and Callery, Pennsylvania. WinCan has development centers in Murten, Switzerland and Krakow, Poland. MyTana maintains operations in St. Paul, Minnesota. All entities have various sales and service outlets across the United States and Europe. • Trebor is a leader in high-purity fluid handling products, including air-operated diaphragm pumps and deionized water-heating systems. Trebor products are used in the manufacturing of semiconductors, disk drives and flat panel displays. Trebor maintains operations in West Jordan, Utah. • Pulsafeeder products are used to introduce precise amounts of fluids into processes to manage water quality and chemical composition. Its markets include industrial and municipal water and wastewater treatment, oil and gas, power generation, chemical and hydrocarbon processing and swimming pools. Pulsafeeder serves these markets by producing hydraulic and mechanical diaphragm pumps, rotary pumps, peristaltic pumps and controllers. Pulsafeeder maintains operations in Rochester, New York and Punta Gorda, Florida. Energy. Energy is a leading supplier of flow meters, small volume provers, electronic registration and control products, rotary vane and turbine pumps, reciprocating piston compressors and terminal automation control systems. Energy is comprised of the following businesses: • Advanced Flow Solutions (“AFS”) consists of the Company’s Corken, Liquid Controls and SAMPI businesses. Corken products consist of positive displacement rotary vane pumps, single and multistage regenerative turbine pumps and small horsepower reciprocating piston compressors in the oil, gas and industrial markets. Products for Liquid Controls and SAMPI consist of positive displacement flow meters as well as electronic registration and control products, including mobile and stationary metering installations for wholesale and retail distribution of petroleum and liquefied petroleum gas, aviation refueling and industrial metering and dispensing of refined liquids and gases. AFS maintains operations in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (Corken and Liquid Controls products) and Altopascio, Italy (SAMPI products). • Toptech supplies terminal automation hardware and software to control and manage inventories as well as transactional data and invoicing to customers in the oil, gas and refined-fuels markets. Toptech maintains operations in Longwood, Florida and Zwijndrecht, Belgium. • Flow Management Devices (“Flow MD”) engineers and manufactures small volume provers that ensure custody transfer accuracy in the oil and gas market. Flow MD maintains operations in Phoenix, Arizona. 5 Valves. Valves is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of specialty valve products for use in the chemical, petro-chemical, energy and sanitary markets as well as a leading producer of fluoroplastic lined corrosion-resistant magnetic drive and mechanical seal pumps, shut-off, control and safety valves for corrosive, hazardous, contaminated, pure and high-purity fluids. Valves is comprised of the following businesses: • Richter and Aegis produce superior solutions for demanding and complex pump and valve applications in the process industry as well as specialty chemical processing valves for use in the chemical, petro-chemical, pharmaceutical, energy and battery industries. Richter and Aegis maintain operations in Kempen, Germany; Suzhou, China; Vadodara, India and Geismar, Louisiana. Agriculture. Agriculture is a leading supplier of pumps, valves, controllers, fittings and systems used in agricultural and industrial applications. Agriculture consists of the following businesses: • Banjo is a provider of special purpose, severe-duty pumps, valves, fittings and systems used in liquid handling. Its products are used in agricultural and industrial applications. Banjo maintains operations in Crawfordsville, Indiana and has distribution facilities in Didam, the Netherlands and Valinhos, Brazil. • KZValve is a leading manufacturer of electric valves and controllers used primarily in agricultural applications. KZValve maintains operations in Greenwood, Nebraska. HEALTH & SCIENCE TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT The HST segment designs, produces and distributes a wide range of precision fluidics, positive displacement pumps, powder and liquid processing technologies, drying systems, micro-precision components, pneumatic components and sealing solutions, high performance molded and extruded sealing components, custom mechanical and shaft seals, engineered hygienic mixers and valves, biocompatible medical devices and implantables, air compressors and blowers, optical components and coatings, laboratory and commercial equipment and precision photonic solutions, technical ceramics and hermetic sealing products and porous material structures and flow control solutions. The following table summarizes the percentage of total HST sales generated by each end market served: 6 The following discussion describes the reporting units included in the HST segment: Scientific Fluidics & Optics. Scientific Fluidics & Optics is a global authority in life science fluidics, optics, microfluidics and photonics and the movement of liquids and gases in critical applications, offering a diverse set of technologies, expertise, capabilities and product solutions across numerous market segments. Scientific Fluidics & Optics is comprised of the following businesses: • IDEX Health & Science (“IH&S”) consists of IH&S Life Science Fluidics, IH&S Life Science Optics and IH&S Microfluidics. The IH&S Life Science Fluidics technology and product portfolio consists of column hardware, degassers, fluidic connections, fluidic manifolds, pumps and pump components, sensors, refractive index detectors, valves and fluidics sub-systems. The IH&S Life Science Optics technology and product portfolio consists of illumination light engines, optical filters, optical subsystems, sensors, cameras and camera imaging objectives. IH&S Microfluidics includes thinXXS Microtechnology, a global leader in developing and producing microfluidic systems, components and consumables serving the point of care diagnostic and digital polymerase chain reaction markets. IH&S serves the life science optics, chromatography, mass spectrometry, in-vitro diagnostics/biotech fluidics and fluidic connections markets. IH&S maintains operations in Bristol, Connecticut; Carlsbad, California; Middleboro, Massachusetts; Oak Harbor, Washington; Rochester, New York; Rohnert Park, California; Zweibrücken, Germany and Saitama, Japan. • IDEX Materials Science Solutions is comprised of the following: ◦ IDEX Optical Technologies consists of Advanced Thin Films, CVI Laser Optics, CVI Infrared Optics and Iridian Spectral Technologies. The technology and product portfolio consists of polarization optics, windows, optical filters, beamsplitters, lenses, waveplates, monolithic, optics, lens assemblies, imaging assemblies, shutters optical subsystems and detector integration. IDEX Optical Technologies specializes in complex coatings on a range of advanced substrates to serve the semiconductor metrology, satellite optical communications, defense, aerospace and remote sensing, additive manufacturing, laser material processing, laser communications, telecommunications and life science markets. The businesses maintain operations in Albuquerque, New Mexico; Longmont, Colorado; Didam, the Netherlands; Whetstone, England; and Ottawa, Canada. ◦ Muon Group manufactures highly precise flow paths in a variety of materials that enable the movement of various liquids and gases in critical applications within the medical, semiconductor, food processing, digital printing and filtration markets. The group includes LouwersHanique, Veco, Millux, Tecan and Atul, which have critical technical expertise in precision and tolerances for different materials, from metals and glass to plastics and ceramics. The business maintains operations in Hapert, the Netherlands; Eerbeek, the Netherlands; Wijchen, the Netherlands; Dorset, England; and Pune, India. ◦ STC Material Solutions specializes in the design and manufacturing of technical ceramics and hermetic sealing products in mission critical applications within the semiconductor, aerospace and defense, industrial technology, medical technology and energy markets. The business maintains operations in St. Albans, Vermont, with additional operations in Santa Ana, California. • Mott Corporation, acquired in September 2024, specializes in the design, customization and manufacturing of sintered porous metal components and engineered solutions used in fluidic applications within the medical, energy, industrial technology, semiconductor, water and aerospace/defense markets. The business maintains operations in Farmington, Connecticut, with additional operations in Plymouth, Michigan and Binasco, Italy. Sealing Solutions. Sealing Solutions focuses on providing special seals and related products and solutions in diversified markets. Sealing Solutions is comprised of the following businesses: • Precision Polymer Engineering is a provider of proprietary high performance seals and advanced sealing solutions for a diverse range of global industries and applications, including hazardous duty, analytical instrumentation, semiconductor, process technologies, oil and gas, pharmaceutical, electronics and food applications. Precision Polymer Engineering maintains operations in Blackburn, England and has an additional manufacturing facility in Brenham, Texas. Precision Polymer Engineering also entered into a joint venture with a third party to manufacture and sell high performance elastomer seals for the oil and gas industry to customers within the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia as well as export these high performance elastomer seals outside of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The joint venture maintains operations in Dammam, Saudi Arabia. • FTL Seals Technology specializes in the design and application of high integrity rotary seals, specialty bearings and other custom products for the mining, power generation and marine markets. FTL Seals Technology maintains operations in Leeds, England. 7 • SFC Koenig is a producer of highly engineered expanders and check valves for critical applications across the transportation, hydraulic, aviation and medical markets. SFC Koenig maintains operations in Dietikon, Switzerland and has additional facilities in North Haven, Connecticut; Illerrieden, Germany and Suzhou, China. • The Roplan businesses are global manufacturers of custom mechanical and shaft seals for a variety of end markets including food and beverage, marine, chemical, wastewater and water treatment. Roplan maintains operations in Sweden and also has operations in Ningbo, China; Berkshire, England and Madison, Wisconsin. Performance Pneumatic Technologies. Performance Pneumatic Technologies provides specialized, high-performing air moving technologies across a wide array of industries. Performance Pneumatic Technologies is comprised of the following businesses: • Gast is a leading manufacturer of air-moving products, with a core technology around fractional horsepower (under 1 hp) air compressors, vacuum pumps and air motors. Gast products are used in a variety of long-life applications requiring a quiet, clean source of moderate vacuum or pressure and primarily serve the medical equipment, environmental equipment, computers and electronics, printing machinery, paint mixing machinery, packaging machinery, graphic arts and industrial manufacturing markets. Gast maintains operations in Benton Harbor, Michigan and has a logistics and commercial center in Redditch, England. • Airtech designs and manufactures a wide range of highly engineered pressure technology products, with a core technology around high performance blowers (2 hp and above) and pneumatic valves for a variety of end markets, including alternative energy, food processing, medical, packaging and transportation. Airtech maintains operations in Rutherford, New Jersey and has other manufacturing operations in Linthicum Heights, Maryland; Wilmington, North Carolina; Werneck, Germany and Shenzhen, China. Material Processing Technologies. Material Processing Technologies provides process equipment and global support service solutions that meet customer specific requirements with a focus in the pharmaceutical, food, battery and chemical markets. Material Processing Technologies is comprised of the following businesses: • IDEX MPT, Inc., which includes Quadro, Steridose, Fitzpatrick, Microfluidics, and Matcon, maintains operations in Waterloo, Canada; Westwood, Massachusetts; Delran, New Jersey; Evesham, England; Ahmedabad, India and Shanghai, China. ◦ Quadro is a leading provider of powder processing solutions for the pharmaceutical, food, personal care and chemical markets. Quadro’s core capabilities include fine milling, emulsification and special handling of liquid and solid particulates for laboratories, through the pilot phase to full scale up with production scale processing. ◦ Steridose is a leading designer and manufacturer of magnetic coupled mixers and diaphragm valves for the global biopharmaceutical industry. ◦ Fitzpatrick is a global leader in the design and manufacture of process technologies for the pharmaceutical and chemical sectors. Fitzpatrick designs and manufactures customized size reduction and roll compaction systems to support their customers’ product development and manufacturing processes. ◦ Microfluidics is a global leader in the design and manufacture of laboratory and production equipment used in the production of micro and nano scale materials for the pharmaceutical, biologics, personal care and chemical markets. Microfluidics is the exclusive producer of the Microfluidizer family of high shear fluid processors for uniform nano-emulsion formation, lipid nanoparticle creation, robust cell disruption and particle size reduction. ◦ Matcon is a global leader in creating flexible material processing solutions for high value powders used in the manufacture of foods, pharmaceuticals, batteries, plastics and fine chemicals. Matcon’s innovative products consist of the original cone valve powder discharge system and filling, mixing and packaging systems, all of which support its customers’ automation and process requirements. These products are critical to its customers’ need to maintain clean, reliable and repeatable formulations of prepackaged foods and pharmaceuticals while helping them achieve lean and agile manufacturing. 8 FIRE & SAFETY/DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS SEGMENT The FSDP segment designs, produces and distributes firefighting pumps, valves and controls, rescue tools, lifting bags and other components and systems; engineered stainless steel banding and clamping devices; and precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints. The following table summarizes the percentage of total FSDP sales generated by each end market served: The following discussion describes the reporting units included in the FSDP segment: Fire & Safety. Fire businesses produce truck-mounted and portable fire pumps, stainless steel and brass valves, monitors, nozzles, foam and compressed air foam systems, pump modules and pump kits, electronic controls and information systems, conventional and networked electrical systems and mechanical components for the fire and specialty vehicle markets. Safety businesses produce hydraulic, battery, gas and electric-operated rescue equipment, hydraulic re-railing equipment, hydraulic tools for industrial applications, recycling cutters, pneumatic lifting and sealing bags for vehicle and aircraft rescue, environmental protection and disaster control and jumping cushions for building rescue for the rescue market. Fire & Safety’s customers are original equipment manufacturers as well as public and private fire and rescue organizations. Fire & Safety maintains operations in Ocala, Florida (Class 1 and Hale products); Warwick, England (Godiva products); Wooster and Columbus, Ohio (Akron Brass and Weldon products); Ballendorf, Germany (AWG Fittings products); Shelby, North Carolina (Hurst Jaws of Life® products); Tianjin, China (Dinglee products); Erlangen, Germany (Lukas products) and Zülpich, Germany (Vetter products). Dispensing. Dispensing businesses produce precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the world. Dispensing is a global supplier of such equipment focused on the architectural paints segment used in retail and commercial stores, hardware stores, home centers and paint and specialized stores as well as in some industrial settings. Dispensing maintains operations in Sassenheim, the Netherlands; Wheeling, Illinois and Sandani, India as well as multiple sales offices around the world. BAND-IT. BAND-IT is a leading producer of high-quality stainless steel banding, buckles and clamping systems. The BAND-IT brand is highly recognized worldwide. BAND-IT products are used for securing exhaust system heat and sound shields, airbags, industrial hose fittings, traffic signs and signals, electrical cable shielding, identification and bundling and in numerous other industrial and commercial applications. BAND-IT products primarily serve the automotive, aerospace, energy, 9 utility, municipal, cable management and general industrial markets. BAND-IT maintains operations in Denver, Colorado, with additional operations in Staveley, England and Suzhou, China. INFORMATION APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS IN GENERAL AND ITS SEGMENTS Competitors The Company’s businesses participate in highly competitive markets. IDEX believes that the principal points of competition are product quality, design and engineering capabilities, product development, conformity to customer specifications, quality of post-sale support, timeliness of delivery and effectiveness of the Company’s distribution channels. Principal competitors of the FMT segment are the Pumps Group (Blackmer, Wilden and Ebsray products) of Dover Corporation (with respect to pumps and small horsepower compressors used in liquefied petroleum gas distribution facilities, rotary gear pumps and air-operated double-diaphragm pumps); and Ingersoll Rand’s Precision and Science Technologies (PST) division (with respect to metering, control, rotary gear pumps and air operated double-diaphragm pumps). Principal competitors of the HST segment are the Thomas division of Ingersoll Rand (with respect to vacuum pumps and compressors); Parker Hannifin (with respect to sealing devices); Valco Instruments Co., Inc. (with respect to connections, degassers and valves); Alluxa, Bekaert, Porvair PLC and the Pall division of Danaher Corporation (with respect to filters); Jenoptik (with respect to optical assemblies in life sciences); and Tecan Trading AG (with respect to the life science fluidics market). Principal competitors of the FSDP segment are Waterous Company, a unit of American Cast Iron Pipe Company (with respect to truck-mounted firefighting pumps); Holmatro, Inc. (with respect to rescue tools); Corob S.p.A., a unit of Graco Inc. (with respect to dispensing and mixing equipment for the paint industry); and Panduit Corporation and Oetiker Inc. (with respect to stainless steel bands, buckles and clamping systems). Customers In 2024, the Company did not have any customers that accounted for more than 3% of net sales. Since the Company serves a wide variety of markets, customer concentrations are not significant. International The Company’s products and services are available worldwide, with manufacturing operations in more than 20 countries. The businesses located outside the U.S. are primarily based in Germany, India, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Italy, Switzerland, Canada and China. The Company’s geographic diversity allows it to draw on the skills of a global workforce, provides greater stability to its operations, allows the Company to drive economies of scale, provides revenue streams that may help offset economic trends that are specific to individual economies and offers the Company an opportunity to access new markets for products. 10 The following table illustrates sales to customers within and outside the U.S. as a percentage of total sales for total IDEX as well as by segment and by reporting unit for the year ended December 31, 2024: Shared Services The Company has production facilities in Suzhou, China, Vadodara, India and Ahmedabad, India that support multiple business units. IDEX also has personnel in China, India, Dubai, Mexico, Latin America and Singapore that provide sales, marketing, product design, engineering and sourcing support to its business units in those regions, as well as personnel in various locations in South America, Southeast Asia, the Middle East, Korea and Japan to support sales and marketing efforts in those regions. Raw Materials The Company uses a wide variety of raw materials, which are generally purchased from a large number of independent sources around the world. The Company believes it has an adequate supply of raw materials necessary to meet demand. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in commodity pricing and inflation and attempts to control these impacts through increased prices to customers and various other programs with its suppliers. Suppliers The Company manufactures many of the parts and components used in its products. Substantially all materials, parts and components purchased by the Company are available from a large number of independent sources around the world. The Company believes it has a sufficient number of suppliers necessary to meet demand but continues to actively evaluate its current suppliers and identify alternative sources to manage supply chain constraints, if needed. Inventory and Backlog The Company is primarily a short cycle business and backlog is not generally considered a significant factor as relatively short delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover are characteristic of most of the Company’s products. Even still, the Company regularly and systematically adjusts production schedules and quantities based on the flow of incoming orders. While backlog was elevated in recent years due to global supply chain constraints, which extended lead times, shifted customer order patterns and resulted in increased inventory to support production, customer destocking efforts beginning in 2023 have resulted in orders stabilizing with backlog and lead times returning to more normalized levels in 2024. The Company remains focused on delivering products and services to customers and continues to actively manage inventory levels. Further, the Company has not historically experienced significant order cancellations and does not expect significant order cancellations in the future. 11 Government Regulations Our compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those related to environmental, international trade, labor and employment, human rights, tax, anti-bribery and competition matters, did not have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. Employees At December 31, 2024, the Company had approximately 9,000 employees. Approximately 4% of its employees are covered by various collective bargaining agreements in the U.S. which will expire at various times between now and June 2028. There are no collective bargaining agreements in the U.S. that will expire in 2025. Management believes that the Company has a positive relationship with its employees. The Company historically has been able to renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements satisfactorily, with its last work stoppage occurring in March 1993. Human Capital Management The Company attributes its success to the valuable contributions of its talented workforce and is committed to fostering a work environment where employees can thrive and grow. Our workplaces promote entrepreneurialism and autonomy while providing a strong safety net of benefits, training and personal development. Investments in attracting, retaining and developing great teams enables the Company to accomplish its goals and deliver innovative customer solutions. The Company’s corporate Human Capital strategy is overseen by its Chief Human Resource Officer (“CHRO”). Annually, the CHRO presents a talent review to the Company’s Board of Directors focused on senior leader team development, the human capital strategy action plan and succession planning for senior management. This ensures that the Board of Directors stays informed and aligned on human capital management strategies for business continuity and success. The Company’s workforce advancement strategy is centered around investments in three pillars: enhancing skills across the entire workforce, leadership development aligned with the Company’s methodology and fostering a premier culture. The Company’s approach to performance management, talent development, talent management and employee engagement helps drive long-term value by providing employees with opportunities to do and be their best both individually and as teams. As part of our Organizational Talent Cycle process, the Company regularly conducts in-depth talent reviews with business leaders, focusing on workforce teams and culture. We identify “stretch” opportunities to help team members grow within and across business units as opportunities and interest arise, and identify local human capital actions to drive our growth strategy. Employees and leaders engage in ongoing performance and development conversations throughout the year. These discussions cover business and development goals, review progress, recognize accomplishments, provide balanced feedback and identify opportunities for improvement. Open and honest dialogue about performance, development and career growth supports our values of trust, team and excellence, helping us achieve our purpose. The Company offers agile development solutions to support unique needs, both locally and across the enterprise, driving long-term value. Employees have access to resources designed to build and enhance their skills for success in their current role or future positions, including personalized development plans and local training programs. Each year, the Company invests in a Global Leadership Conference for senior leaders to align on strategic priorities and strengthen core leadership skills. To support our growth strategy and culture, the Company also sponsors accelerated, on-the-job learning opportunities for key leaders through the IDEX Academy’s global leadership development programs. These programs allow emerging leaders from different geographies and business units to practice new leadership behaviors, share best practices, address business challenges and build strong support networks. The Company’s learning curriculum features a mix of instructor-led, self-paced and blended learning solutions, created internally or sourced from external partners, to develop future leaders in accordance with the IDEX leadership methodology. Additionally, in 2024, the Company supported over 150 senior leaders in inclusive change leadership sessions to accelerate the development of high-performing talent and promote a culture of growth. The Company also enables employee development and growth by offering eligible U.S. employees the opportunity to participate in the Tuition Reimbursement program. Through the program, employees can have certain expenses from secondary educational institutions reimbursed up to $5,250 per year. The Company prioritizes hiring team members who embrace its team-oriented culture and emphasizes leveraging internal talent, filling many leadership positions from within the Company’s talent pipeline. A key element of the IDEX Difference is building and engaging great teams. Employee engagement is essential for fostering a premiere culture where everyone can thrive and has an opportunity to do and be their best. We believe our 12 employees are highly engaged, as evidenced by the Company’s annual employee engagement index, which remains above the manufacturing industry average at 81%, as measured by the Company’s employee engagement survey. Additionally, 94% of employees reported they have the knowledge and skills needed to perform their jobs effectively. Key initiatives like the Global Leadership Conference have enhanced senior leaders’ perceptions of learning and development, strengthened support for skill and career growth, and boosted their confidence in achieving their career goals at IDEX. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion The Company has always recognized diversity as foundational to creativity and resilience; the three pillars of Innovation, Diversity and Excellence form the acronym that is the Company’s name, IDEX. In 2024, we continued progress against the strategic roadmap tied to our human capital strategy: (1) completion of local Business Unit Inclusion Plans; (2) delivery of quarterly Inclusive Leadership Training and a two-day enterprise-wise Inclusion Summit to promote leadership skill building for all employees; (3) participation in the Company’s Employee Resource Groups (“ERGs”); and (4) participation in Talent Networks. All offerings, including membership in ERGs, are open to all employees, regardless of their specific background or identity. IDEX has built a reputation as a respected employer with a welcoming culture, where 78% of employees feel a strong sense of belonging, according to our 2024 employee engagement survey. Employee Pay and Benefits Attracting and retaining top talent is critical to the success of the Company’s business. The Company offers a highly competitive pay and benefits package for employees in all the markets where it operates. The performance-based pay packages provide many employees with short-term performance incentives. The Company also provides equity-based, long-term incentives to its senior leaders. The Company’s U.S. employees can participate in a 401(k) retirement plan and an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which allows an employee to purchase IDEX stock through payroll deductions. Further, the Company has conducted pay equity analyses for U.S. employees since 2018 to ensure that employees’ actual pay was substantially similar to their predicted pay. Where appropriate, the Company provided base pay adjustments for employees that were outliers from their predicted pay. Workplace Health & Safety The Company is committed to providing a workplace that is safe for all of our employees, contractors, business partners and visitors. The commitment to Environmental, Health, and Safety (“EH&S”) begins at the corporate and executive level. The program is overseen by the EH&S Senior Director and the Chief Sustainability Officer, both of whom are part of the Legal Department. Each of the Company’s businesses employ local EH&S specialists. These individuals and local safety committees, in conjunction with the corporate team, form the basis of the global EH&S program. The Company’s corporate EH&S policies are a key part of the global EH&S program. They apply to all of the Company’s businesses and each business is expected to comply with policies and all EH&S laws and regulations. In addition to the corporate policies, each business develops and implements its own health and safety policies tailored to the local business. The Company also encourages employees enrolled in the U.S. Healthcare Benefit Plan to participate in the third-party operated Wellness Program which provides access to annual biometric screenings and health evaluations. We offer “wellness credits” that can be earned by employees as well as spouses and partners who take advantage of these early detection services offered or engage in healthy challenges and other activities each year. In addition, a number of the business units organize complementary wellness programs, including walking clubs, health fairs and “lunch and learns” with nutritionists for their employees. Worker Rights and Protection The Company believes that a respectful workplace is free from unlawful discrimination and harassment, and this involves more than just compliance with the law. The Company strives to create a work environment that is free of inappropriate and unprofessional behavior and consistent with the Company’s values – a place where everyone is invited to do their best every day and feel free to report any concerns. The Company has policies, procedures and regular training in place to protect its workforce and prevent workplace harassment and discrimination. This includes a global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics 13 policy where employees agree to follow and receive annual training. The Company also maintains a global hotline where employees are encouraged (and can choose to remain anonymous) to report any concerns or issues. Information about Our Executive Officers Set forth below are the names of the executive officers of the Company, their ages, years of service, the positions held by them and their business experience. * Mr. Khandelwal rejoined IDEX in November 2023 after previously serving in various roles from 2010 to 2020. Mr. Ashleman has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since December 2020. Prior to that, Mr. Ashleman was Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from July 2015 to December 2020, Vice President-Group Executive of the Company’s HST and FSDP segments from January 2014 through July 2015 and President-Group Executive of the Company’s FSDP segment from 2011 through January 2014. Mr. Ashleman joined IDEX in 2008 as the President of Gast Manufacturing. Mr. Khandelwal has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November 2023. Prior to rejoining IDEX, Mr. Khandelwal served as Chief Financial Officer of Multi-Color Corporation, a manufacturer of printed labels for consumer goods, from January 2022 through November 2023, and as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CIRCOR International, a pump & valve systems and custom engineering & design company, from April 2020 through December 2021. From 2010 through March 2020, Mr. Khandelwal held a number of senior finance roles within IDEX, serving most recently as Vice President of Finance Operations, Treasury and Financial Planning & Analysis for the Company. Ms. Anderson has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since February 2022. Prior to that, Ms. Anderson served as Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from December 2017 through February 2022 after joining IDEX as Assistant General Counsel in October 2016. Prior to joining IDEX, Ms. Anderson served in various roles of increasing responsibility at SunCoke Energy, Inc., most recently as Senior Counsel and Deputy Chief Compliance Officer. Ms. Flores has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since February 2021. Prior to that, Ms. Flores served as Global, Vice President Talent from May 2019 through February 2021. From February 2018 through May 2019, Ms. Flores was Group Vice President Human Resources. Prior to that she served as Vice President, Talent Management and Development from March 2017 to February 2018, after being promoted from Director, Talent Development, a position she served in from March 2015 to March 2017. Ms. Unnikrishnan has served as Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy and Innovation Officer since March 2022. Prior to that, Ms. Unnikrishnan served as the Chief Strategy Officer of Vontier from October 2020 to July 2021. From September 2016 to October 2020, Ms. Unnikrishnan was Vice President of Strategy at Harman International. Prior to her time at Harman, Ms. Unnikrishnan led Center10 Consulting and served as Managing Director at Blackrock and Vice President of Corporate Strategy at Pfizer. Public Filings Copies of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are made available free of charge at www.idexcorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after being filed electronically with the SEC. The Company’s reports are also available free of charge on the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov. Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K. 14 Item 1A. Risk Factors. For an enterprise as diverse and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors present risks to the Company and could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of the Company’s operations and the financial results of its operations elsewhere in this report, the most material of these factors are included below. Current global economic events and conditions may amplify many of these risks. These risks are not the only risks that may affect the Company. Additional risks that the Company is not aware of or does not believe are material at the time of this filing may also become important factors that adversely affect the Company’s business. Risks Related to the Company’s Operations The Company’s Inability to Continue to Develop New Products Could Limit Sales Growth. The Company’s ability to continue to grow organically is tied in large part to its ability to continue to develop new products. A failure to continue to develop and deliver new, innovative and competitive products to the market could limit sales growth and negatively impact the Company and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The Company’s Growth Strategy Includes Acquisitions and Divestitures, and the Company May Not be Able to Make Acquisitions of Suitable Candidates, Integrate Acquisitions Successfully, or Successfully Execute Divestitures. The Company’s historical growth has included, and the Company’s future growth is likely to continue to include, acquisitions. The Company intends to continue to seek acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance its position in existing markets throughout the world. The Company may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses into its existing operations. In addition, any acquisition, once successfully integrated, may not perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or otherwise prove beneficial to the Company. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the assumption of unexpected, undisclosed, uninsured or unindemnified liabilities including exposure to litigation, governmental investigations, regulatory exposure or other claims that may be pending or inherited at the time of the acquisition or that may be filed, expanded or commenced thereafter; difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted in, and future acquisitions could result in, the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. The Company may also seek to divest portions of its business that are not deemed to fit with its strategic plan. Divestitures involve additional risks and uncertainties, such as the ability to sell such businesses on satisfactory terms and within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Any failure to realize the expected benefits of any divestiture transaction could negatively impact the Company and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, divestitures of businesses involve a number of risks, including significant costs and expenses, the loss of customer relationships, decrease in revenues and earnings associated with the divested business and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Furthermore, divestitures may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations which could negatively impact the Company and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The Markets Served by the Company are Highly Competitive and this Competition Could Reduce Sales and Profit Margins. Most of the Company’s products are sold in competitive markets. Maintaining and improving a competitive position will require continued investment in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, technology, customer service and support and distribution networks. The Company may not be successful in maintaining its competitive position. The Company’s competitors may develop products that are superior, may develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services or may adapt quicker to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Additionally, the Company’s competitors may adopt new technologies and technological advancements, such as using artificial intelligence and machine learning to pursue new products and approaches more quickly, successfully and effectively than the Company. The Company may not be able to compete successfully with existing competitors or with new competitors. Pricing pressures may require the Company to adjust the prices of products to stay competitive. Failure to continue competing successfully could reduce sales, profit margins and overall financial performance. 15 The Company is Dependent on the Availability of Raw Materials, Parts and Components Used in Its Products and Changes in Supply of, or Price for, Raw Materials, Parts and Components May Materially Adversely Affect the Company. While the Company manufactures certain parts and components used in its products, the Company also requires substantial amounts of raw materials and purchases certain parts and components from suppliers. The availability of and prices for raw materials, parts and components may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, including due to geopolitical or civil unrest, unfavorable economic or industry conditions, increased or new tariffs and other trade barriers, labor disruptions, supply chain disruptions, catastrophic weather events, natural disasters, public health concerns, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. Any change in the supply of, or price for, raw materials or parts and components could materially affect the Company and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The Company’s Business Operations May Be Materially Adversely Affected by Information Systems Interruptions or Intrusion, Including those Arising From Cybersecurity Attacks or Incidents or Violations of Laws Regulating Privacy and Data Security. The Company depends on various internal and third party information technologies to administer, store, process and transmit electronic information (including sensitive or controlled data such as confidential business information and personal data relating to employees, customers and other business partners) and to support a variety of critical business activities. Our business has an increasing reliance on IT systems and a growing digital footprint as a result of changing technologies, increasing connected devices and digital offerings, and an increase in remote and hybrid workforce populations. Additionally, some of our products contain computer hardware and software and offer the ability to connect to computer networks. Our customers, including government customers, are also requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards for our businesses with more frequency. If the Company’s systems, technologies, products or services (including those we acquire through business acquisitions), or the systems, technologies, products or services of the Company’s customers or third-party hosting services (including third-party data centers and cloud platforms upon which we rely), are damaged or cease to function properly, or if the Company or third-party hosting service systems are subject to deliberate cyber-security attacks, such as those involving unauthorized access or malicious software, or unintentional cybersecurity incidents, such as those involving systems misconfigurations, misuse or human error and/or other intrusions, the Company, its operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. These impacts could include production downtimes, operational delays or other detrimental impacts on operations or the ability to provide products and services to customers; the compromise, destruction, corruption or theft of confidential or otherwise protected information, data or intellectual property; security breaches; other manipulation or improper use of the Company’s systems or networks; financial losses from fraudulent transactions; financial losses from remedial actions; loss of business or potential liability; adverse media coverage; legal claims or legal proceedings including regulatory investigations, actions, penalties or fines, including those arising from the violation of any applicable data privacy laws; and/or damage to the Company’s reputation. While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, based on our analysis at this time, we have not experienced a cybersecurity threat or incident that we believe has or is reasonably likely to materially affect the Company. As a global organization, we are also subject to data privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls in numerous jurisdictions as a result of having access to and processing confidential, personal and/or sensitive data in the course of our business. We are required to comply with increasingly complex laws and regulations enacted to protect business and personal data regarding privacy, data protection and data security in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, including the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) and the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”) as revised and expanded under the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), as well as new laws governing digital technologies and cybersecurity and increasingly robust contractual requirements on privacy and security. Litigation, governmental investigations and enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt the regular operations of our business, and data breaches or violations of laws regarding privacy, data protection and data security can result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damages to our reputation, any of which may adversely affect our business and financial statements. The interpretation and enforcement of existing and new laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection and data security are continuously evolving and there is significant uncertainty with respect to how compliance with these laws and regulations may develop and the costs and complexity of future compliance. As cybersecurity threats continue to evolve and as cybersecurity and data protection laws and regulations continue to develop globally, we expect to expend additional resources to continue to develop our compliance programs, strengthen our information security, data protection, disaster recovery and business continuity measures, and investigate and remediate vulnerabilities. There has been a rise in the number of cyberattacks targeting confidential business information generally and in the manufacturing industry specifically by both state-sponsored and criminal organizations. These may include such things as denial of service attacks, introduction of ransomware or other malicious software programs, and other disruptive problems. In 16 addition, there has been a rise in the number of cyberattacks that depend on human error or manipulation, including phishing attacks or schemes that use social engineering to gain access to systems or perpetuate wire transfer or other frauds. Moreover, the rapid evolution and increased adoption of artificial intelligence technologies may intensify our cybersecurity risks. The Company’s cybersecurity defenses may be insufficient to fully mitigate cyber risks and losses related to cybersecurity events, any of which may result in a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, until we have migrated businesses we acquire onto our IT systems or ensured compliance with our information technology and cybersecurity standards, we have in the past and may in the future face additional risks because of the continued use of predecessor IT systems, procedures and cybersecurity risk mitigation measures. Given the unpredictability, nature and scope of cybersecurity attacks and incidents, it is possible that potential vulnerabilities could go undetected for an extended period, and it could take considerable time for the Company to obtain full and reliable information as to the extent, amount and type of information and/or systems compromised. Any imposition of liability, particularly liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage, could materially adversely harm our operating results and financial condition. Uncertainties with respect to the development, deployment, and use of artificial intelligence in our business and products may result in harm to our business and reputation. We are in the initial stages of incorporating artificial intelligence (“AI”) into our business activities and our product and service offerings. As with many innovations, AI presents risks and challenges that could adversely impact our business. The development, adoption, and use of AI technologies are still in their early stages and ineffective or inadequate AI development or deployment practices could result in unintended consequences. For example, AI algorithms may be flawed or may be based on datasets that are biased or insufficient. In addition, any disruption or failure in the AI functionality we have incorporated or may in the future incorporate into our business activities, products or services could adversely impact our business or result in delays or errors in our offerings. The legal and regulatory landscape surrounding AI technologies is rapidly evolving and uncertain, including in the areas of intellectual property, cybersecurity and privacy and data protection. Compliance with new or changing laws, regulations or industry standards relating to AI may impose significant costs and may limit our ability to develop, deploy or use AI technologies. Failure to appropriately respond to this evolving landscape may result in legal liability, regulatory action, or brand and reputational harm. Uncertainty Related to Environmental Regulation, Industry Standards, or Other Risks Associated with a Potential Global Transition to a Lower-Carbon Economy, as well as Physical Risks of Climate Change, Could Adversely Impact the Company’s Results of Operations and Financial Position. Increased public awareness and concern regarding environmental risks, including global climate change and the potential global transition to a lower-carbon economy, may result in more international, regional, federal and/or state requirements or industry standards to reduce or mitigate global warming and other environmental risks. New climate change laws and regulations could require the Company to change its manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for its manufacturing operations. Various jurisdictions in which the Company does business have implemented, or in the future could implement or amend, restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases, taxation of or caps on the use of carbon-based energy, limitations or restrictions on water use, limitations or restrictions on the production of single-use plastics, regulations on energy management and waste management and other rules and regulations to address climate change and other environmental risks, which may increase the Company’s expenses and adversely affect its operating results. We also are or may become subject to increasing sustainability-related reporting requirements. In March 2024, the SEC adopted new rules regarding climate-related disclosures. Though these rules are currently being challenged in legal proceedings and their effectiveness has been stayed by the SEC, these rules, if they become effective, would require public companies to make a wide range of climate-related disclosures. Similarly, the State of California has recently enacted its own legislation requiring extensive climate-related disclosures for companies deemed to be doing business in California, and other states are considering similar laws. We are also subject to the European Union’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive. Complying with such laws and regulations, which may continue to evolve, may impose substantial additional costs and require additional resources, including for third-party attestation to enable the capture, analysis and audit of appropriate data. Any actual or alleged failure to comply with laws and regulations around disclosures could result in fines, penalties and civil liabilities and damages to our reputation. In addition to changes in regulations or industry standards, a failure by the Company to innovate and adapt products to new markets, changing customer preferences for higher-efficiency products, or increasing scrutiny related to sustainability activities and greenhouse gas emissions could limit sales growth and negatively impact the Company and its financial condition, results 17 of operations and cash flow. At the same time, certain governmental representatives and other stakeholders have increasingly expressed or pursued opposing views, legislation and investment expectations around sustainability initiatives, including the enactment or proposal of “anti-ESG” legislation or policies. If our sustainability reporting and practices do not meet the expectations and standards of our stockholders, customers and other stakeholders, our reputation and business activities may be negatively impacted and our appeal to certain investors may be reduced. The physical risks of climate change are highly uncertain and differ in the geographic regions in which the Company operates. These physical risks, including wildfires, rising sea levels, floods and other extreme weather events, may impact the availability and cost of materials, sources and supply of energy, product demand and manufacturing and could increase insurance and other operating costs. Any future increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change could expand the nature, scope and complexity of matters that the Company is required to control, assess and report. If environmental laws or regulations or industry standards are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the Company, its suppliers, its customers or its products, or the Company’s operations are disrupted due to physical impacts of climate change on the Company, its customers or its suppliers, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Business Disruptions Due to Catastrophic Weather Events, Natural Disasters and Public Health Threats Could Adversely Affect the Company. The Company faces various risks related to the occurrence of catastrophic weather events or significant natural disasters, including earthquakes, wildfires, droughts, fires, power-outages or other catastrophic events, in areas in which we have manufacturing facilities or from which we obtain products. Severe weather conditions, including any that may be caused or exacerbated by global climate change, may cause physical damage to our properties, closure of one or more of our manufacturing or distribution facilities, lack of an adequate work force in a market, temporary disruption in the supply of inventory, disruption in the transport of products and utilities and delays in the delivery of products to our customers. Additionally, public health threats may negatively impact the global economy by causing changes in consumer behavior, market downturns, restrictions on business and individual activities and increased volatility. Any widespread public health threats could have a significant impact on the Company’s supply chain, such as the Company experienced during the global outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. To the extent that any of the foregoing adversely affect the Company and its financial results, they may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Item 1A , “Risk Factors” of this annual report, such as those relating to international operations, the Company’s ability to develop new products, the Company’s ability to execute on its growth strategy of acquisitions, the Company’s dependency on raw materials, parts and components, the effects on movements in foreign currency exchange rates on the Company, the effects on the Company that result from declines in commodity prices and the Company’s reliance on labor availability to operate and grow the business. Risks Related to Economic and Political Conditions A Slowdown in the U.S. or International Economy Could Materially Adversely Affect the Sales and Profitability of the Company’s Businesses. In 2024, 50% of the Company’s sales were derived from domestic operations and 50% were derived from international operations. The Company’s largest end markets include industrial, energy, fire suppression, water, semiconductor, food and pharmaceutical, life sciences, automotive, analytical instruments, paint dispensing, chemical, agriculture and rescue tools. A slowdown in the U.S. or global economy and, in particular, any of these specific end markets could materially reduce the Company’s sales and profitability. Changes to Geopolitical and Economic Conditions in the U.S. and Foreign Countries in Which the Company Operates Could Adversely Affect the Company. The Company expects international operations and export sales to continue to be significant for the foreseeable future. The Company’s sales from international operations and sales from export are both subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the U.S. These risks include the following: • possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations and the risks related to required compliance with local laws; • risks of economic instability, including due to inflation; 18 • currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; • potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; • disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; • withdrawal from or renegotiation of international trade agreements and other restrictions on the trade between the United States and other countries; • the imposition of and changes in the United States’ and other governments’ trade regulations, trade wars, increased or new tariffs and other trade barriers, including as a result of geopolitical developments (such as escalating tensions in the Middle East) and relations between the United States and China and the United States and Russia and any changes arising as a result of global leadership changes, including the recent United States’ presidential election; and • geopolitical events, including natural disasters, catastrophic weather events, climate change, public health conditions, including epidemics, pandemics and other outbreaks (such as the global outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic), political instability or other geopolitical events, including civil or political unrest, terrorism, insurrection or war (including the ongoing war in Russia and Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas war). Any of these events could have a materially adverse impact on the Company and its operations. Significant Movements in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates May Harm the Company’s Financial Results. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Euro, Swiss Franc, Canadian Dollar, British Pound, Indian Rupee, Chinese Renminbi, Swedish Krona, Japanese Yen and Brazilian Real. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which the Company does business against the U.S. Dollar could affect the Company’s ability to sell products competitively and control its cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, Item 7A , “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Fluctuations in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Results of Operations and Financial Position. The Company’s profitability may be adversely affected during any periods of unexpected or rapid increases in interest rates. The Company maintains a Credit Agreement with a revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Facility”) in an aggregate principal amount of $800 million, which bears interest at either an alternate base rate or adjusted Term SOFR (or appropriate alternative currency reference rates) plus, in each case, an applicable margin based on the lower of the Company’s senior, unsecured, long-term debt rating or the Company’s applicable leverage ratio. A significant increase in Term SOFR or the other rates the Company has agreed to use as an alternative to Term SOFR (should Term SOFR become unavailable) under the Credit Agreement, as amended, would significantly increase the Company’s cost of borrowings. Further, any changes in regulatory standards or industry practices, such as the discontinuation of the use of Term SOFR and/or the transition to alternative benchmark rates may result in the usage of higher interest rates under the Credit Agreement or Revolving Facility, and the Company’s current or future indebtedness may be adversely affected. The Company is also exposed to risks if the U.S. Federal Reserve raises its benchmark interest rate, which may reduce the availability of and increase the cost of obtaining new debt and refinancing existing indebtedness. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, Item 7A , “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” A Significant or Sustained Decline in Commodity Prices, Including Oil, Could Negatively Impact the Levels of Expenditures by Certain of the Company’s Customers. Demand for the Company’s products depends, in part, on the level of new and planned expenditures by certain of its customers. The level of expenditures by the Company’s customers is dependent on, among other factors, general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. Volatility in commodity prices, including oil, can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. The ability of the Company’s customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by the conditions in their industries. Reduced demand for the Company’s products could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts the absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. This reduced demand could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Legal, Accounting and Regulatory Matters An Unfavorable Outcome of Any Pending Contingencies or Litigation Could Adversely Affect the Company. 19 The Company and its subsidiaries are currently involved in pending and threatened legal, regulatory and other proceedings incidental to the operation of their businesses. These proceedings may pertain to matters such as product liability or contract disputes, and may also involve governmental inquiries, inspections, audits or investigations relating to issues such as tax matters, intellectual property, environmental, health and safety issues, governmental regulations, employment and other matters. Where it is reasonably possible to do so, the Company accrues estimates of the probable costs for the resolution of these matters. These estimates are developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential results and the availability of insurance coverage, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future operating results for any particular quarter or annual period could be materially affected by changes in assumptions, the continued availability of insurance coverage or the effectiveness of the Company’s strategies related to these proceedings. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 3 , “Legal Proceedings” and Note 10 , “Commitments and Contingencies” in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Failure to Adequately Protect the Company’s Intellectual Property and the Risk of Disputes Involving Intellectual Property Infringement Could Adversely Impact the Company’s Competitive Position, Results of Operations, and Financial Condition. The Company owns patents, trademarks, licenses and other forms of intellectual property related to its products and continuously invests in research and development that may result in technological innovations and general intellectual property rights. The Company employs various measures to develop, maintain and protect its intellectual property rights. If these measures are not effective, or if the Company’s intellectual property is otherwise infringed, challenged, invalidated or circumvented, the Company may face adverse impacts to its results of operations and/or financial condition. Further, if intellectual property is infringed, challenged, invalidated or circumvented, this could reduce barriers to entry into the Company’s existing lines of business and may result in a loss of market share and adversely impact the Company’s competitive position. Additionally, the Company has registered intellectual property in multiple countries, and the Company’s ability to protect and enforce its intellectual property rights may be limited in foreign countries due to differences in intellectual property protections or proprietary rights laws. If the Company’s intellectual property is infringed, challenged, invalidated or circumvented due to these lesser protections, the Company may face adverse impacts to its results of operations, financial condition and/or competitive position. Litigation may be necessary to enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights or to defend against infringement claims by third parties. Any litigation or claims brought by the Company could result in costs and diversion of resources, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and/or financial condition. Any intellectual property litigation or claims brought against the Company may lead to litigation expenses, diversion of resources, losses or licensing expenses or the cessation of selling certain products, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and/or financial condition. The Company’s Intangible Assets, Including Goodwill, are a Significant Portion of Total Assets and a Write-off of Intangible Assets or Goodwill Would Adversely Impact the Company’s Operating Results and Significantly Reduce the Company’s Net Worth. The Company’s total assets includes substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, which primarily result from acquisitions. At December 31, 2024, goodwill and intangible assets totaled $3,251.7 million and $1,284.8 million, respectively. Annually, or when certain events occur that require a more current valuation, the Company assesses whether there has been an impairment in the value of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of the Company’s reporting units were to fall significantly below forecasted levels, the Company could be required to reflect, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating income for an impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets would adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and net worth. See Note 6 , “Goodwill and Intangible Assets” in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further discussion on goodwill and intangible assets. The Company May Face Adverse Effects Resulting from Improper Conduct by Our Employees, Agents or Business Partners. While we strive to maintain high standards, the Company cannot guarantee that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by employees, agents or business partners of ours (or businesses that we acquire or partner with) that would violate laws in the U.S. or foreign countries in which the Company operates, including laws governing payment to government officials, bribery, fraud, conflicts of interest, competition, employment practices and workplace behavior, export and import compliance, economic and trade sanctions, money laundering and data privacy. 20 In particular, recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity with more frequent investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the SEC, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. The Company’s policies mandate compliance with all anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. However, the Company operates in certain countries that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption. Violations of any of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions or penalties, both monetary and non-monetary, increased costs of compliance and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition and results of operations. General Risk Factors A Failure to Retain Executive Management and Key Personnel or Recruit Adequate Successors May Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations and Implementation of Strategy. The Company’s future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of its executive management and other key personnel and their ability to provide the Company with uninterrupted leadership and direction. The loss of the services of any of the executive officers or other key personnel or a failure to provide adequate succession plans for these individuals could have an adverse impact on the Company’s operations and implementation of its strategic plan. The availability of highly qualified talent is limited and the competition for talent is robust. Challenges with Respect to Labor Availability Could Negatively Impact the Company’s Ability to Operate or Grow the Business. The Company’s success depends in part on the ability of its businesses to proactively attract, motivate and retain a qualified and highly skilled workforce in an intensely competitive labor market. A failure to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel could adversely affect the Company’s operating results or its ability to operate or grow the business. Additionally, any labor stoppages or labor disruptions, including due to geopolitical unrest, unfavorable economic or industry conditions, catastrophic weather events, natural disasters or public health threats could adversely affect the Company’s operating results or its ability to operate or grow the business.