” of this annual report. The forward-looking statements included here are only made as of the date of this report, and management undertakes no obligation to publicly update them to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as may be required by law. Investors are cautioned not to rely unduly on forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented here. Item 1. Business. Overview IDEX Corporation (“IDEX” or the “Company”) was incorporated in Delaware on September 24, 1987 and is an applied solutions provider serving niche markets worldwide. IDEX is a high-performing global enterprise committed to making trusted solutions that improve lives and are mission critical components in everyday life. Substantially all of the Company’s business activities are carried out through over 50 wholly-owned subsidiaries with shared values of trust, team and excellence. IDEX’s diverse family of businesses is innovative and inquisitive in its quest to solve customers’ most challenging applied technology problems. These businesses operate with a high degree of autonomy, yet are all united by employing The IDEX Difference, a philosophy of great teams who embrace the 80/20 principle while remaining hyper-focused on serving customers. 1 Table of Contents End Markets and Products The following table summarizes the percentage of total IDEX sales generated by each end market: The Company has three reportable segments: Fluid & Metering Technologies (“FMT”), Health & Science Technologies (“HST”) and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products (“FSDP”). The segments are structured around how to best serve customer needs, with each segment consisting of businesses that have product and end market similarities as well as common distribution methods and production processes. This structure enables management efficiency, aligns IDEX’s operations with its focus on organic growth, strategic acquisitions and capital allocation priorities and provides transparency about the Company’s performance to external stakeholders. Within its three reportable segments, the Company maintains 13 reporting units. IDEX believes that each of its reporting units is a leader in its products and services. The Company also believes that its strong financial performance has been attributable to its ability to design and engineer specialized quality products coupled with its ability to successfully identify, acquire and integrate strategic acquisitions. The table below illustrates the three reportable segments and the reporting units within each segment. 2 Table of Contents The table below illustrates the percentages of the share of Net Sales and Adjusted EBITDA contributed by each segment on the basis of total segments (not total Company) for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. (1) Segment Adjusted EBITDA excludes the impact of unallocated corporate costs of $85.7 million and $73.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. FLUID & METERING TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT The FMT segment designs, produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, valves, small volume provers, flow meters, injectors and other fluid-handling pump modules and systems and provides flow monitoring and other services for the food, chemical, general industrial, water and wastewater, agriculture and energy industries. FMT application-specific pump and metering solutions serve a diverse range of end markets, including industrial infrastructure (fossil fuels, refined and alternative fuels and water and wastewater), energy, chemical processing, agriculture, food and beverage, semiconductor, pulp and paper, automotive/transportation, plastics and resins, electronics and electrical, construction and mining, pharmaceutical and bio-pharmaceutical, machinery and numerous other specialty niche markets. The following table summarizes the percentage of total FMT sales generated by each end market: The following discussion describes the reporting units included in the FMT segment: Pumps. Pumps is a leading manufacturer of rotary internal gear, external gear, vane and rotary lobe pumps, custom-engineered OEM pumps, strainers, gear reducers and engineered pump systems. Pumps primarily uses independent distributors to market and sell its products. Pumps is comprised of the following businesses: • Viking Pump’s products consist of external gear pumps, strainers and reducers and related controls used for transferring and metering thin and viscous liquids sold under the Viking Pump and Wright Flow brands. Viking Pump products primarily serve the chemical, petroleum, pulp and paper, plastics, paints, inks, tanker trucks, compressor, 3 Table of Contents construction, food and beverage, personal care, pharmaceutical and biotech markets. Viking Pump maintains operations in Cedar Falls, Iowa (Viking Pump and Wright Flow products); Eastbourne, England (Wright Flow products); Shannon, Ireland (Viking Pump products) and Windsor, Ontario (Viking Pump products). • Warren Rupp manufactures air-operated double diaphragm pumps products (which include Versa-Matic products) used for abrasive and semisolid materials as well as for applications where product degradation is a concern or where electricity is not available or should not be used. Warren Rupp products primarily serve the chemical, paint, food processing, electronics, construction, utilities, oil and gas, mining and industrial maintenance markets. Warren Rupp maintains operations in Mansfield, Ohio. • ABEL designs and manufactures highly engineered reciprocating positive displacement pumps for a variety of end markets including mining, marine, power, water, wastewater and other general industries. ABEL maintains operations in Büchen, Germany and Mansfield, Ohio and has a facility in Madrid, Spain. Water. Water is a leading provider of metering technology, flow monitoring products and underground surveillance services for wastewater markets, alloy and non-metallic gear pumps and peristaltic pumps. Water is comprised of the following businesses: • ADS’ products and services provide comprehensive integrated solutions that enable industry, municipalities and government agencies to analyze and measure the capacity, quality and integrity of wastewater collection systems, including the maintenance and construction of such systems. ADS maintains operations in Huntsville, Alabama and various other locations in the United States, Canada and Australia. • iPEK supplies remote controlled systems used for infrastructure inspection. iPEK maintains operations in Hirschegg, Austria and Sulzberg, Germany. • Nexsight and its market leading businesses, Envirosight, WinCan, MyTana and Pipeline Renewal Technologies, complement and create synergies with the Company’s existing iPEK and ADS business units that design and create sewer crawlers, inspection and monitoring systems and software applications that allow teams to identify, anticipate and correct wastewater system issues remotely. Nexsight maintains operations in Randolph, New Jersey; St. Paul, Minnesota; Callery, Pennsylvania; Murten, Switzerland and various other locations across the United States and Europe. • Trebor is a leader in high-purity fluid handling products, including air-operated diaphragm pumps and deionized water-heating systems. Trebor products are used in the manufacturing of semiconductors, disk drives and flat panel displays. Trebor maintains operations in West Jordan, Utah. • Pulsafeeder products are used to introduce precise amounts of fluids into processes to manage water quality and chemical composition as well as peristaltic pumps. Its markets include water and wastewater treatment, oil and gas, power generation, pulp and paper, chemical and hydrocarbon processing and swimming pools. Pulsafeeder maintains operations in Rochester, New York and Punta Gorda, Florida. Energy. Energy is a leading supplier of flow meters, small volume provers, electronic registration and control products, rotary vane and turbine pumps, reciprocating piston compressors and terminal automation control systems. Energy is comprised of the following businesses: • Advanced Flow Solutions (“AFS”) consists of the Company’s Corken, Liquid Controls and SAMPI businesses. Applications for Liquid Controls and SAMPI consist of positive displacement flow meters and electronic registration and control products, including mobile and stationary metering installations for wholesale and retail distribution of petroleum and liquefied petroleum gas, aviation refueling and industrial metering and dispensing of liquids and gases. Corken products consist of positive-displacement rotary vane pumps, single and multistage regenerative turbine pumps and small horsepower reciprocating piston compressors. AFS maintains operations in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (Corken and Liquid Controls products) and Altopascio, Italy (SAMPI products). • Toptech supplies terminal automation hardware and software to control and manage inventories as well as transactional data and invoicing to customers in the oil, gas and refined-fuels markets. Toptech maintains operations in Longwood, Florida and Zwijndrecht, Belgium. • Flow MD engineers and manufactures small volume provers that ensure custody transfer accuracy in the oil and gas industry. Flow MD maintains operations in Phoenix, Arizona. Valves. Valves is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of specialty valve products for use in the chemical, petro-chemical, energy and sanitary markets as well as a leading producer of fluoroplastic lined corrosion-resistant magnetic drive and mechanical seal pumps, shut-off, control and safety valves for corrosive, hazardous, contaminated, pure and high-purity fluids. Valves is comprised of the following businesses: 4 Table of Contents • Alfa Valvole and OBL manufacture products used in various industrial fields for fluid control, in both gas and liquid form, in all sectors of plant engineering, cosmetics, detergents, food industry, electric energy, pharmaceutical, chemical plants, petrochemical plants, oil, heating/air conditioning and also on ships, ferries and marine oil platforms. Alfa Valvole and OBL maintain operations in Cassorezzo, Italy. • Richter and Aegis produce superior solutions for demanding and complex pump and valve applications in the process industry as well as specialty chemical processing valves for use in the chemical, petro-chemical, chlor-alkali and pulp and paper industries. Richter and Aegis maintain operations in Kempen, Germany; Suzhou, China and Geismar, Louisiana. Agriculture. Agriculture consists of the following businesses: • Banjo is a provider of special purpose, severe-duty pumps, valves, fittings and systems used in liquid handling. Its products are used in agriculture and industrial applications. Banjo is based in Crawfordsville, Indiana with distribution facilities in Didam, The Netherlands and Valinhos, Brazil. • KZValve is a leading manufacturer of electric valves and controllers used primarily in agricultural applications. KZValve maintains operations in Greenwood, Nebraska. HEALTH & SCIENCE TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT The HST segment designs, produces and distributes a wide range of precision fluidics, rotary lobe pumps, centrifugal and positive displacement pumps, roll compaction and drying systems, micro-precision components, pneumatic components and sealing solutions, high performance molded and extruded sealing components, custom mechanical and shaft seals, engineered hygienic mixers and valves, biocompatible medical devices and implantables, air compressors and blowers, optical components and coatings, laboratory and commercial equipment, precision photonic solutions and precision gear and peristaltic pump technologies. HST serves a variety of end markets, including food and beverage, life sciences, analytical instruments, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical, industrial, semiconductor, digital printing, automotive/transportation, medical/dental, energy, cosmetics, marine, chemical, wastewater and water treatment, research and aerospace/defense markets. The following table summarizes the percentage of total HST sales generated by each end market: 5 Table of Contents The following discussion describes the reporting units included in the HST segment: Scientific Fluidics & Optics. Scientific Fluidics & Optics is a global authority in life science fluidics, optics, microfluidics and photonics and the movement of liquids and gases in critical applications, offering a diverse set of technologies, expertise, capabilities and product solutions across numerous market segments. Scientific Fluidics & Optics is comprised of the following businesses: • IDEX Health & Science (“IH&S”) consists of IH&S Fluidics, IH&S Life Science Optics and IH&S Microfluidics. The IH&S Fluidics technology and product portfolio consists of column hardware, degassers, fluidic connections, fluidic manifolds, pumps and pump components, sensors, refractive index detectors, valves and fluidics sub-systems. The IH&S Life Science Optics technology and product portfolio consists of illumination light engines, optical filters, optical subsystems, sensors, cameras and camera imaging objectives. IH&S Microfluidics includes thinXXS Microtechnology, a global leader in developing and producing microfluidic systems, components and consumables serving the point of care diagnostic and digital polymerase chain reaction (“PCR”) markets. IH&S serves the life science optics, chromatography, mass spectrometry, in-vitro diagnostics/biotech fluidics and fluidic connections markets. IH&S maintains operations in Bristol, Connecticut; Carlsbad, California; Lima, New York; Middleboro, Massachusetts; Oak Harbor, Washington; Rochester, New York; Rohnert Park, California; Zweibruken, Germany and Saitama, Japan. • IDEX Optical Technologies consists of Advanced Thin Films, CVI Laser Optics and CVI Infrared Optics. The technology and product portfolio consists of polarization optics, windows, optical filters, beamsplitters, lenses, waveplates, monolithic, optics, lens assemblies, imaging assemblies, shutters optical subsystems and detector integration. IDEX Optical Technologies serves the semiconductor metrology, satellite optical communications, defense, aerospace and remote sensing, additive manufacturing and laser material processing markets. The businesses maintain operations in Albuquerque, New Mexico; Boulder, Colorado; Didam, The Netherlands; and Whetstone Leicester, United Kingdom. • Muon Group manufactures highly precise flow paths in a variety of materials that enable the movement of various liquids and gases in critical applications for medical, semiconductor, food processing, digital printing and filtration technologies. The group includes LouwersHanique, Veco, Millux, Tecan and Atul, which have critical technical expertise in precision and tolerances for different materials, from metals and glass to plastics and ceramics. The business maintains operations in Hapert, the Netherlands; Eerbeek, the Netherlands; Wijchen, the Netherlands; Dorset in the United Kingdom and Pune, India. Sealing Solutions. Sealing Solutions focuses on providing special seals and related products and solutions in diversified markets. Sealing Solutions is comprised of the following businesses: • Precision Polymer Engineering is a provider of proprietary high performance seals and advanced sealing solutions for a diverse range of global industries and applications, including hazardous duty, analytical instrumentation, semiconductor, process technologies, oil and gas, pharmaceutical, electronics and food applications. Precision Polymer Engineering is headquartered in Blackburn, England and has an additional manufacturing facility in Brenham, Texas. Precision Polymer Engineering also entered into a joint venture with a third party to manufacture and sell high performance elastomer seals for the oil and gas industry to customers within the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia as well as export these high performance elastomer seals outside of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The joint venture is headquartered in Dammam, Saudi Arabia. • FTL Seals Technology is located in Leeds, England and specializes in the design and application of high integrity rotary seals, specialty bearings and other custom products for the mining, power generation and marine markets. • Novotema is located in Villongo, Italy and is a leader in the design, manufacture and sale of specialty sealing solutions for use in the building products, gas control, transportation, industrial and water markets. • SFC Koenig is a producer of highly engineered expanders and check valves for critical applications across the transportation, hydraulic, aviation and medical markets. SFC Koenig is based in Dietikon, Switzerland and has additional facilities in North Haven, Connecticut; Illerrieden, Germany and Suzhou, China. • The Roplan businesses are global manufacturers of custom mechanical and shaft seals for a variety of end markets including food and beverage, marine, chemical, wastewater and water treatment. Roplan is headquartered in Sweden and has operations in Ningbo, China; Berkshire, England and Madison, Wisconsin. Performance Pneumatic Technologies. Performance Pneumatic Technologies provides specialized, high-performing air moving technologies across a wide array of industries. Performance Pneumatic Technologies is comprised of the following businesses: 6 Table of Contents • Gast is a leading manufacturer of air-moving products, with a core technology around fractional horsepower (under 1 hp) air compressors, vacuum pumps and air motors. Gast products are used in a variety of long-life applications requiring a quiet, clean source of moderate vacuum or pressure and primarily serve the medical equipment, environmental equipment, computers and electronics, printing machinery, paint mixing machinery, packaging machinery, graphic arts and industrial manufacturing markets. Gast is based in Benton Harbor, Michigan and has a logistics and commercial center in Redditch, England. • Airtech designs and manufactures a wide range of highly-engineered pressure technology products, with a core technology around high performance blowers (2 hp and above) and pneumatic valves for a variety of end markets, including alternative energy, food processing, medical, packaging and transportation. Airtech is headquartered in Rutherford, New Jersey and has other manufacturing operations in Linthicum Heights, Maryland; Wilmington, North Carolina; Werneck, Germany and Shenzhen, China. Material Processing Technologies. Material Processing Technologies provides process equipment and global support service solutions that meet customer specific requirements with a focus in the pharmaceutical, food and chemical markets. Material Processing Technologies is comprised of the following businesses: • IDEX MPT, Inc., which includes Fitzpatrick, Microfluidics, Quadro and Steridose, is based in Waterloo, Canada and also has an office in Westwood, Massachusetts. ◦ Quadro is a leading provider of powder processing solutions for the pharmaceutical and food markets. Quadro’s core capabilities include fine milling, emulsification and special handling of liquid and solid particulates for laboratory, pilot phase and production scale processing. ◦ Steridose develops engineered hygienic mixers and valves for the global biopharmaceutical industry. ◦ Fitzpatrick is a global leader in the design and manufacture of process technologies for the pharmaceutical, food and personal care markets. Fitzpatrick designs and manufactures customized size reduction and roll compaction systems to support their customers’ product development and manufacturing processes. ◦ Microfluidics is a global leader in the design and manufacture of laboratory and production equipment used in the production of micro and nano scale materials for the pharmaceutical, biologics and vaccine markets. Microfluidics is the exclusive producer of the Microfluidizer family of high shear fluid processors for uniform nano-emulsion formation, Lipid nanoparticle creation, robust cell disruption and particle size reduction. • Matcon is located in Evesham, England and is a global leader in material processing solutions for high value powders used in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals, food, plastics and fine chemicals. Matcon’s innovative products consist of the original cone valve powder discharge system and filling, mixing and packaging systems, all of which support its customers’ automation and process requirements. These products are critical to its customers’ need to maintain clean, reliable and repeatable formulations of prepackaged foods and pharmaceuticals while helping them achieve lean and agile manufacturing. Micropump. Headquartered in Vancouver, Washington, Micropump is a leader in small, precision-engineered, magnetically and electromagnetically driven rotary gear, piston and centrifugal pumps. Micropump products are used in low-flow abrasive and corrosive applications. Micropump products primarily serve the continuous ink-jet printing, medical equipment, chemical processing, pharmaceutical, refining, laboratory, electronics, textiles, peristaltic metering pumps, analytical process controllers and sample preparation systems markets. FIRE & SAFETY/DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS SEGMENT The FSDP segment designs, produces and distributes firefighting pumps, valves and controls, rescue tools, lifting bags and other components and systems for the fire and rescue industry, engineered stainless steel banding and clamping devices used in a variety of industrial and commercial applications in the automotive, energy and industrial markets and precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses in the paint and industrial markets around the world. 7 Table of Contents The following table below summarizes the percentage of total FSDP sales generated by each end market: The following discussion describes the reporting units included in the FSDP segment: Fire & Safety. Fire & Safety businesses produce truck-mounted and portable fire pumps, stainless steel and brass valves, monitors, nozzles, foam and compressed air foam systems, pump modules and pump kits, electronic controls and information systems, conventional and networked electrical systems, mechanical components for the fire, rescue and specialty vehicle markets, hydraulic, battery, gas and electric-operated rescue equipment, hydraulic re-railing equipment, hydraulic tools for industrial applications, recycling cutters, pneumatic lifting and sealing bags for vehicle and aircraft rescue, environmental protection and disaster control and jumping cushions for building rescue. Fire & Safety’s customers are original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) as well as public and private fire and rescue organizations. Fire & Safety maintains facilities in Ocala, Florida (Class 1 and Hale products); Warwick, England (Godiva products); Wooster and Columbus, Ohio (Akron Brass and Weldon products); Ballendorf, Germany (AWG Fittings products); Shelby, North Carolina (Hurst Jaws of Life® products); Tianjin, China (Dinglee products); Erlangen, Germany (Lukas products) and Zulpich, Germany (Vetter products). Dispensing. Dispensing businesses produce precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the world. Dispensing is a global supplier of such equipment focused on the architectural paints segment used in retail and commercial stores, hardware stores, home centers and paint and specialized stores as well as in some industrial settings. Dispensing maintains facilities in Sassenheim, The Netherlands and Wheeling, Illinois as well as multiple sales offices around the world. BAND-IT. BAND-IT is a leading producer of high-quality stainless steel banding, buckles and clamping systems. The BAND-IT brand is highly recognized worldwide. BAND-IT products are used for securing exhaust system heat and sound shields, airbags, industrial hose fittings, traffic signs and signals, electrical cable shielding, identification and bundling and in numerous other industrial and commercial applications. BAND-IT products primarily serve the automotive, aerospace, energy, utility, municipal, cable management and general industrial markets. BAND-IT is based in Denver, Colorado, with additional operations in Staveley, England. 8 Table of Contents INFORMATION APPLICABLE TO THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS IN GENERAL AND ITS SEGMENTS Competitors The Company’s businesses participate in highly competitive markets. IDEX believes that the principal points of competition are product quality, design and engineering capabilities, product development, conformity to customer specifications, quality of post-sale support, timeliness of delivery and effectiveness of the Company’s distribution channels. Principal competitors of the FMT segment are the Pumps Group (Maag, Blackmer and Wilden products) of Dover Corporation (with respect to pumps and small horsepower compressors used in liquefied petroleum gas distribution facilities, rotary gear pumps and air-operated double-diaphragm pumps); and Ingersoll Rand’s Precision and Science Technologies (PST) division (with respect to metering, control and rotary gear pumps). Principal competitors of the HST segment are the Thomas division of Ingersoll Rand (with respect to vacuum pumps and compressors); Parker Hannifin (with respect to sealing devices); Valco Instruments Co., Inc. (with respect to fluid injectors and valves); Jenoptik (with respect to optical assemblies in life sciences); and Tecan Trading AG (with respect to the life science fluidics market). The principal competitors of the FSDP segment are Waterous Company, a unit of American Cast Iron Pipe Company (with respect to truck-mounted firefighting pumps); Holmatro, Inc. (with respect to rescue tools); Corob S.p.A. (with respect to dispensing and mixing equipment for the paint industry); and Panduit Corporation (with respect to stainless steel bands, buckles and clamping systems). Customers In 2022, the Company did not have any customers that accounted for more than 3% of net sales. Since the Company serves a wide variety of markets, customer concentrations are not significant. International The Company’s products and services are available worldwide, with manufacturing operations in more than 20 countries. The businesses located outside the U.S. are primarily based in Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Italy, India, China and Canada. The Company’s geographic diversity allows it to draw on the skills of a global workforce, provides greater stability to its operations, allows the Company to drive economies of scale, provides revenue streams that may help offset economic trends that are specific to individual economies and offers the Company an opportunity to access new markets for products. A strong foothold in these countries has allowed the Company to make great strides to expand its footprint in emerging markets, where the Company believes there is tremendous potential for growth across all segments. 9 Table of Contents The following table illustrates sales to customers within and outside the U.S. as a percentage of total sales for total IDEX as well as by segment and by reporting unit for the year ended December 31, 2022: Raw Materials The Company uses a wide variety of raw materials which are generally purchased from a large number of independent sources around the world. The Company believes it has an adequate supply of raw materials necessary to meet demand and continues to actively manage supply chain constraints. In addition, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in commodity pricing and inflation and attempts to control these impacts through increased prices to customers and various other programs with its suppliers. Suppliers The Company manufactures many of the parts and components used in its products. Substantially all materials, parts and components purchased by the Company are available from a large number of independent sources around the world. The Company believes it has a sufficient number of suppliers necessary to meet demand but continues to actively evaluate its current suppliers and identify alternative sources to manage supply chain constraints, as needed. Inventory and Backlog The Company regularly and systematically adjusts production schedules and quantities based on the flow of incoming orders. During 2022, backlog was elevated as compared to pre-pandemic levels due to supply chain constraints, which both extended lead times and shifted customer order patterns as well as increased inventory to support production. However, the Company remains a short cycle business and backlog is not considered a significant factor in the Company’s business as relatively short delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover are characteristic of most of the Company’s products. The Company remains focused on delivering products and services to customers against an elevated backlog and continues to actively manage inventory levels. Further, with respect to order cancellations, the Company has not historically experienced significant order cancellations and does not expect significant order cancellations in the future. Shared Services The Company has production facilities in Suzhou, China and Vadodara, India that support multiple business units. During 2021, the Company embarked on projects to expand both the China and India facilities in an effort to increase its footprint in these emerging markets as the Company believes there is tremendous potential for growth across all segments. The China 10 Table of Contents expansion was completed in late 2022 and the India facility is expected to be completed in early 2023. IDEX also expanded its facilities in Singapore and Dubai in 2022 to support growth in South East Asia and the Middle East. In addition, IDEX has personnel in China, India, Dubai, Mexico, Latin America and Singapore that provide sales, marketing, product design, engineering and sourcing support to its business units in those regions as well as personnel in various locations in South America, South East Asia, the Middle East, Korea and Japan to support sales and marketing efforts in those regions. Government Regulations Our compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those related to environmental, international trade, labor and employment, human rights, tax, anti-bribery and competition matters, did not have a material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. Employees At December 31, 2022, the Company had 8,868 employees. Approximately 4% of its employees are covered by various collective bargaining agreements in the U.S. which will expire at various times between now and October 2026. Of those, approximately 1% of employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements in the U.S. which will expire within one year. Management believes that the Company has a positive relationship with its employees. The Company historically has been able to renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements satisfactorily, with its last work stoppage occurring in March 1993. Human Capital Management The Company recognizes that its success would not be possible without the valuable contributions of its workforce. Investment in people enables the Company to accomplish its goals and deliver innovative customer solutions. The Company’s corporate Human Capital strategy is overseen by its Chief Human Resource Officer (“CHRO”). Annually, the CHRO presents a talent review to the Company’s Board of Directors focused on senior team development, succession planning for senior management and the general human capital strategy action plan to ensure that the Board is informed on key human capital management matters and to seek alignment on plans for the Company’s continuity and success. The Company’s workforce advancement strategy is focused through investment in three pillars: skill-building for the entire workforce, leadership development aligned with the Company’s methodology and fostering a great culture. The Company’s approach to performance management, talent development management and employee engagement helps drive long-term value by providing employees with opportunities to do and be their best both individually and as teams: • As part of our Organizational Talent Cycle process, we conduct regular in-depth talent reviews of our workforce teams and culture with business leaders, identify “stretch” opportunities to grow team members, and connect our decentralized businesses by moving skilled employees from one business unit to another as opportunities and interest arise. Employees and leaders have performance and development conversations throughout the year, talking about business and development goals, reviewing progress, recognizing accomplishments, giving balanced feedback, and identifying opportunities for improvement. Open, honest dialog about performance, development and career growth supports our values of trust, team and excellence and The IDEX Difference, building trust and helping us fulfill our purpose. • Employees have access to resources that enhance and build capabilities, including specific individual development plans and local training and development programs. In support of our growth strategy and culture, the Company also sponsors global leadership programs through the IDEX Academy which provides accelerated development for key leaders to deepen our pipeline across multiple levels of leadership. Our learning curriculum includes instructor-led, self-paced and blended solutions that have been created internally or sourced from external partners. These offerings also help to develop future and potential leaders in the IDEX leadership methodology. • The Company also enables employee development and growth by offering eligible U.S. employees the opportunity to participate in the Tuition Reimbursement program. Through the program, employees can have certain expenses from secondary educational institutions reimbursed up to $5,250 per year. • The Company prioritizes hiring team members who will embrace the team-driven culture and also places considerable emphasis on leveraging the talented employees within the Company’s internal pipeline, filling many leadership positions with Company employees. • Across the enterprise, the Company’s goal is to achieve manufacturing company top quartile employee engagement as measured by its engagement survey. We believe our employees have a high level of engagement as the Company’s employee engagement index remains above the average for manufacturing companies at 76 percent. 11 Table of Contents Employee Pay and Benefits Attracting and retaining top talent is critical to the success of the Company’s business. The Company offers a highly competitive pay and benefits package for employees in all the markets where it operates. The performance-based pay packages provide many employees with short-term performance incentives. The Company also provides equity-based, long-term incentives to its senior leaders. In 2022, a number of the Company’s business units took proactive action with off-cycle pay rate increases for hourly employees with the onset of higher cost of living expenses associated with rising inflation. The Company regularly reviews its compensation structure and intends to adjust pay as necessary to retain key talent. The Company’s U.S. employees can participate in a 401(k) retirement plan and an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which allows an employee to purchase IDEX stock through payroll deductions. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion The Company has always recognized diversity as foundational to creativity and resilience; the three pillars of Innovation, Diversity and Excellence form the acronym that is the Company’s name, IDEX. Gender, ethnic, cultural and other human diversity is critical to the Company’s success. In 2022, the Company launched its Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (“DEI”) strategic roadmap. To prepare leadership for the launch, executives participated in a day-long strategy and development session which included a cultural competence assessment and personal feedback for all senior leaders. The Company also: 1) established a Corporate DEI team; 2) embedded DEI initiatives into Executive Leadership Team compensation and goals; 3) launched an Inclusive Leader Development approach; 4) expanded diverse talent recruiting outreach efforts; and 5) established key DEI partnerships. The Company’s Board of Directors and CEO regularly review DEI progress. The Company has also enhanced the diversity of the Board of Directors in the last year and the Board now comprises 30% women and 30% members who identify with racial/ethnic minority groups. Additionally, the Company has increased representation for both women and racially/ethnically diverse individuals in leadership roles. From 2021 to 2022, and as of December 31, 2022, the number of women globally in senior leadership roles increased from 28% to 31% and the number of women globally in people manager roles increased from 21% to 22%. In addition, and also as of December 31, 2022, the number of racial/ethnic minority senior leaders in the U.S. increased from 18% to 21%, and the number of racial/ethnic minority people managers in the U.S. held at 19% year over year. The foregoing representation numbers do not include employee populations associated with acquisitions completed in 2021 or 2022. Further, the Company has conducted pay equity analyses for U.S. employees since 2018 to ensure that employees’ actual pay was substantially similar to their predicted pay. Where appropriate, the Company provided base pay adjustments for employees that were outliers from their predicted pay, further reinforcing the Company’s commitment to diversity and a culture of inclusion, equality and respect. Workplace Health & Safety The Company is committed to providing a workplace that is safe for all of our employees, contractors, business partners and visitors. The commitment to Environmental, Health, and Safety (“EH&S”) begins at the corporate and executive level. The program is overseen by the EH&S Senior Director and the Chief Compliance Officer, both of whom are part of the Legal Department. Each of the Company’s businesses employ local EH&S specialists. These individuals and local safety committees, in conjunction with the corporate team, form the basis of the global EH&S program. The Company’s corporate EH&S policies are a key part of the global EH&S program. They apply to all of the Company’s businesses and each business is expected to comply with policies and all EH&S laws and regulations. In addition to the corporate policies, each business develops and implements its own health and safety policies tailored to the local business. The Company also encourages employees enrolled in the U.S. Healthcare Benefit Plan to participate in the third-party operated Wellness Program which provides access to annual biometric screenings, health evaluations and wellness credits that can be earned for meeting individual wellness goals each year. In addition, a number of the business units organize complementary wellness programs, including walking clubs, health fairs and “lunch and learns” with nutritionists for their employees. Worker Rights and Protection The Company believes that a respectful workplace is free from unlawful discrimination and harassment, and this involves more than just compliance with the law. The Company strives to create a work environment that is free of inappropriate and 12 Table of Contents unprofessional behavior and consistent with the Company’s values – a place where everyone is invited to do their best every day and feel free to report any concerns. The Company has policies, procedures and regular training in place to protect its workforce and prevent workplace harassment and discrimination. This includes a global Code of Business Conduct & Ethics policy where employees agree to follow and receive annual training. The Company also maintains a global hotline where employees are encouraged (and can choose to remain anonymous) to report any concerns or issues. Information about Our Executive Officers Set forth below are the names of the executive officers of the Company, their ages, years of service, the positions held by them and their business experience. Mr. Ashleman has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since December 2020. Prior to that, Mr. Ashleman was Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from July 2015 to December 2020, Vice President-Group Executive of the Company’s HST and FSDP segments from January 2014 through July 2015 and President-Group Executive of the Company’s FSDP segment from 2011 through January 2014. Mr. Ashleman joined IDEX in 2008 as the President of Gast Manufacturing. Mr. Grogan has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2017. Prior to that, Mr. Grogan served as Vice President of Finance, Operations from July 2015 through January 2017. From January 2012 through July 2015, Mr. Grogan was Vice President-Finance for the Company’s HST and FSDP segments. Ms. Anderson has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since February 2022. Prior to that, Ms. Anderson served as Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from December 2017 through February 2022 after joining IDEX as Assistant General Counsel in October 2016. Prior to joining IDEX, Ms. Anderson served in various roles of increasing responsibility at SunCoke Energy, Inc., most recently as Senior Counsel and Deputy Chief Compliance Officer. Ms. Flores has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since February 2021. Prior to that, Ms. Flores served as Global, Vice President Talent from May 2019 through February 2021. From February 2018 through May 2019, Ms. Flores was Group Vice President Human Resources. Prior to that she served as Vice President, Talent Management and Development from March 2017 to February 2018, after being promoted from Director, Talent Development, a position she served in from March 2015 to March 2017. Mr. Uleman has served as Senior Vice President, Group Executive, HST since October 2022. Prior to that, Mr. Uleman served as Group President HST from September 2018 to October 2022 and Group President Diversified from February 2015 to September 2018. Mr. Uleman joined IDEX in January 2012 as President of Global Dispensing. Ms. Unnikrishnan has served as Senior Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Development since March 2022. Prior to that, Ms. Unnikrishnan served as the Chief Strategy Officer of Vontier from October 2020 to July 2021. From September 2016 to October 2020, Ms. Unnikrishnan was Vice President of Strategy at Harman International. Prior to her time at Harman, Ms. Unnikrishnan led Center10 Consulting and served as Managing Director at Blackrock and Vice President of Corporate Strategy at Pfizer. The Company’s executive officers are elected at a meeting of the Board of Directors immediately following the annual meeting of stockholders, and they serve until the meeting of the Board immediately following the next annual meeting of stockholders, or until their successors are duly elected and qualified or until their death, resignation or removal. 13 Table of Contents Public Filings Copies of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are made available free of charge at www.idexcorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after being filed electronically with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Company’s reports are also available free of charge on the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov. Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K. 14 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. For an enterprise as diverse and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors present risks to the Company and could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of the Company’s operations and the financial results of its operations elsewhere in this report, the most material of these factors are included below. Current global economic events and conditions may amplify many of these risks. These risks are not the only risks that may affect the Company. Additional risks that the Company is not aware of or does not believe are material at the time of this filing may also become important factors that adversely affect the Company’s business. Risks Related to the Company’s Operations The Company’s Inability to Continue to Develop New Products Could Limit Sales Growth. The Company’s ability to continue to grow organically is tied in large part to its ability to continue to develop new products. A failure to continue to develop and deliver new, innovative and competitive products to the market could limit sales growth and negatively impact the Company and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The Company’s Growth Strategy Includes Acquisitions and the Company May Not be Able to Make Acquisitions of Suitable Candidates or Integrate Acquisitions Successfully. The Company’s historical growth has included, and the Company’s future growth is likely to continue to include, acquisitions. The Company intends to continue to seek acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance its position in existing markets throughout the world. The Company may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses into its existing operations. In addition, any acquisition, once successfully integrated, may not perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or otherwise prove beneficial to the Company. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the assumption of undisclosed, uninsured or unindemnified liabilities, difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted in, and future acquisitions could result in, the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. The Markets Served by the Company are Highly Competitive and this Competition Could Reduce Sales and Profit Margins. Most of the Company’s products are sold in competitive markets. Maintaining and improving a competitive position will require continued investment in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support and distribution networks. The Company may not be successful in maintaining its competitive position. The Company’s competitors may develop products that are superior, may develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services or may adapt quicker to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. The Company may not be able to compete successfully with existing competitors or with new competitors. Pricing pressures may require the Company to adjust the prices of products to stay competitive. Failure to continue competing successfully could reduce sales, profit margins and overall financial performance. The Company is Dependent on the Availability of Raw Materials, Parts and Components Used in Its Products and Changes in Supply of, or Price for, Raw Materials, Parts and Components May Materially Adversely Affect the Company. While the Company manufactures certain parts and components used in its products, the Company also requires substantial amounts of raw materials and purchases certain parts and components from suppliers. The availability of and prices for raw materials, parts and components may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, including due to geopolitical or civil unrest, unfavorable economic or industry conditions, labor disruptions, supply chain disruptions, catastrophic weather events, natural disasters, the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials or parts and components could materially affect the Company and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 15 Table of Contents The Company and its Results of Operations and Financial Condition Have Been and May Continue To Be Materially Adversely Impacted by Public Health Conditions, Including Epidemics or Pandemics Such as COVID-19. The Company faces various risks related to public health issues, including epidemics, pandemics and other outbreaks, including the global outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic continues to be a rapidly-changing situation that has negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the global economy. The impact of COVID-19, including changes in consumer behavior, pandemic fears, market downturns and restrictions on business and individual activities, has periodically created significant volatility in the global economy. There have been extraordinary actions taken by international, federal, state and local public health and governmental authorities to contain and combat the outbreak and spread of COVID-19 in regions throughout the world, including travel bans, quarantines, “stay-at-home” orders and similar mandates for many individuals to substantially restrict daily activities and for many businesses to curtail or cease normal operations. Any changes in or resurgence of COVID-19, or any other widespread public health conditions, could have a material impact on the Company’s ability to get the raw materials, parts and components it needs to manufacture its products as its suppliers face disruptions in their businesses, closures or bankruptcy as a result of COVID-19 or other widespread public health conditions. The Company depends greatly on its suppliers for items that are essential to the manufacturing of its products. If its suppliers fail to meet its manufacturing needs in the future, it would delay the Company’s production and product shipments to customers and negatively affect operations. Further, as new strains or variants of COVID-19 or other viruses, diseases or public health conditions develop or if sufficient amounts of vaccines or treatments are not available, not widely administered or otherwise prove ineffective, the impact of a widespread public health condition on the global economy, and in turn, our financial condition and operating results could be material. The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic or any future widespread public health conditions may impact our employees’ ability to work in proximity to others or travel for work. Due to large remote workforce populations resulting from COVID-19 or other widespread public health conditions, the Company may also face informational technology infrastructure and connectivity issues from the vendors that it relies on for certain information technologies to administer, store and support the Company’s multiple business activities. IDEX is heavily dependent on the availability and support of its technology landscape, several of which are provided by external third party service providers (e.g., Microsoft, AT&T and Verizon). Although the Company has not suffered any disruptions to date, any future disruptions in their operations could also negatively impact the Company and its operating results and financial condition. To the extent COVID-19 or any future widespread public health conditions adversely affects the Company and its financial results, they may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of this annual report, such as those relating to international operations, the Company’s ability to develop new products, the Company’s ability to execute on its growth strategy of acquisitions, the Company’s dependency on raw materials, parts and components, the effects on movements in foreign currency exchange rates on the Company, the effects on the Company that result from declines in commodity prices and the Company’s reliance on labor availability to operate and grow the business. The Company’s Business Operations May Be Materially Adversely Affected by Information Systems Interruptions or Intrusion, Including those Arising From Cybersecurity Attacks or Incidents. The Company depends on various internal and third party information technologies to administer, store, process and transmit electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personal data relating to employees, customers and other business partners) and to support a variety of critical business activities. If these systems (or the systems of the Company’s customers or third-party hosting services) are damaged or cease to function properly, or if the Company or third-party hosting service systems are subject to deliberate cyber-security attacks, such as those involving unauthorized access or malicious software, or unintentional cybersecurity incidents, such as those involving systems misconfigurations, misuse or human error and/or other intrusions, the Company, its operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. These impacts could include production downtimes, operational delays or other detrimental impacts on operations or the ability to provide products and services to its customers; the compromise, destruction, corruption or theft of confidential or otherwise protected information, data or intellectual property; security breaches; other manipulation or improper use of the Company’s systems or networks; financial losses from fraudulent transactions; financial losses from remedial actions; loss of business or potential liability; adverse media coverage; legal claims or legal proceedings including regulatory investigations, actions, penalties or fines, including those arising from the violation of any applicable data privacy laws; and/or damage to the Company’s reputation. There has been a rise in the number of cyberattacks targeting confidential business information generally and in the manufacturing industry specifically by both state-sponsored and criminal organizations. Moreover, there has been a rise in the number of cyberattacks that depend on human error or manipulation, including phishing attacks or schemes that use social 16 Table of Contents engineering to gain access to systems or perpetuate wire transfer or other frauds. These trends increase the likelihood of such events occurring as well as the costs associated with protecting against such attacks. While the Company attempts to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, technical security controls and maintenance of backup and protective systems, the Company’s systems, networks, products and services remain potentially vulnerable to known or unknown threats or other intrusions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition or results of operations. Given the unpredictability, nature and scope of cyber-security attacks and incidents, it is possible that potential vulnerabilities could go undetected for an extended period, and it could take considerable time for the Company to obtain full and reliable information as to the extent, amount and type of information and/or systems compromised. Any imposition of liability, particularly liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage, could materially adversely harm our operating results and financial condition. Uncertainty Related to Environmental Regulation and Industry Standards, as well as Physical Risks of Climate Change, Could Adversely Impact the Company's Results of Operations and Financial Position. Increased public awareness and concern regarding environmental risks, including global climate change, may result in more international, regional and/or federal requirements or industry standards to reduce or mitigate global warming and other environmental risks. New climate change laws and regulations could require the Company to change its manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for its manufacturing operations. For example, various jurisdictions in which the Company does business have implemented, or in the future could implement or amend, restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases, taxation of or caps on the use of carbon-based energy, limitations or restrictions on water use, limitations or restrictions on the production of single use plastics, regulations on energy management and waste management and other rules and regulations to address climate change and other environmental risks, which may increase the Company’s expenses and adversely affect its operating results. In addition, the physical risks of climate change are highly uncertain and differ in the geographic regions in which the Company operates. These physical risks may impact the availability and cost of materials, sources and supply of energy, product demand and manufacturing and could increase insurance and other operating costs. Any future increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change could expand the nature, scope and complexity of matters that the Company is required to control, assess and report. If environmental laws or regulations or industry standards are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the Company, its suppliers, its customers or its products, or the Company's operations are disrupted due to physical impacts of climate change on the Company, its customers or its suppliers, the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Further, any failure to adequately address stakeholder expectations or to achieve previously announced initiatives or goals with respect to environmental, social and governance matters may adversely impact our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Economic Conditions A Slowdown in the U.S. or International Economy Could Materially Adversely Affect the Sales and Profitability of the Company’s Businesses. In 2022, 52% of the Company’s sales were derived from domestic operations while 48% were derived from international operations. The Company’s largest end markets include industrial, semiconductor, automotive, life sciences and analytical instruments, food and pharma, fire & safety, energy, paint, chemical processing, agriculture and water and wastewater treatment. A slowdown in the U.S. or global economy and, in particular, any of these specific end markets could materially reduce the Company’s sales and profitability. Changes to Geopolitical and Economic Conditions in the U.S. and Foreign Countries in Which the Company Operates Could Adversely Affect the Company. The Company expects international operations and export sales to continue to be significant for the foreseeable future. The Company’s sales from international operations and sales from export are both subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the U.S. These risks include the following: • possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations and the risks related to required compliance with local laws; • risks of economic instability, including due to inflation; • currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; • potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; 17 Table of Contents • disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; • withdrawal from or renegotiation of international trade agreements and other restrictions on the trade between the United States and other countries; • the effects of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and the United Kingdom that went into force on May 1, 2021, following the United Kingdom’s decision to exit the European Union, and other long term economic, legal, political and social implications of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; • the imposition of and changes in the United States’ and other governments’ trade regulations, trade wars, tariffs and other trade barriers, including as a result of geopolitical developments and relations between the United States and China and the United States and Russia; and • geopolitical events, including natural disasters, climate change, public health conditions, political instability or other geopolitical events, including civil or political unrest (such as the current conflict between Ukraine and Russia), terrorism, insurrection or war. Any of these events could have a materially adverse impact on the Company and its operations. Significant Movements in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates May Harm the Company’s Financial Results. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Euro, Swiss Franc, Canadian Dollar, British Pound, Indian Rupee, Chinese Renminbi, Swedish Krona and Brazilian Real. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which the Company does business against the U.S. Dollar could affect the Company’s ability to sell products competitively and control its cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, Item 7A , “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Fluctuations in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Results of Operations and Financial Position. The Company’s profitability may be adversely affected during any periods of unexpected or rapid increases in interest rates. The Company maintains a Credit Agreement with both a term facility and revolving credit facility (together, the “Credit Facility”), which bears interest at either an alternate base rate or adjusted Term SOFR (or appropriate alternative currency reference rates) plus, in each case, an applicable margin based on the lower of the Company’s senior, unsecured, long-term debt rating or the Company’s applicable leverage ratio. A significant increase in Term SOFR or the other rates the Company has agreed to use as an alternative to Term SOFR (should Term SOFR become unavailable) under the Credit Facility, as amended, would significantly increase the Company’s cost of borrowings. Further, any changes in regulatory standards or industry practices, such as the discontinuation of the use of Term SOFR and/or the transition to alternative benchmark rates may result in the usage of higher interest rates under the Credit Facility, and the Company’s current or future indebtedness may be adversely affected. The Company is also exposed to risks if the U.S. Federal Reserve raises its benchmark interest rate, which may reduce the availability of and increase the cost of obtaining new debt and refinancing existing indebtedness. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, Item 7A , "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." A Significant or Sustained Decline in Commodity Prices, Including Oil, Could Negatively Impact the Levels of Expenditures by Certain of the Company’s Customers. Demand for the Company’s products depends, in part, on the level of new and planned expenditures by certain of its customers. The level of expenditures by the Company’s customers is dependent on, among other factors, general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. Volatility in commodity prices, including oil, can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. The ability of the Company’s customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by the conditions in their industries. Reduced demand for the Company’s products could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts the absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. This reduced demand could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Legal, Accounting and Regulatory Matters An Unfavorable Outcome of Any Pending Contingencies or Litigation Could Adversely Affect the Company. The Company is currently involved in pending and threatened legal, regulatory and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. These proceedings may pertain to matters such as product liability or contract disputes, and may 18 Table of Contents also involve governmental inquiries, inspections, audits or investigations relating to issues such as tax matters, intellectual property, environmental, health and safety issues, governmental regulations, employment and other matters. Where it is reasonably possible to do so, the Company accrues estimates of the probable costs for the resolution of these matters. These estimates are developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential results and the availability of insurance coverage, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future operating results for any particular quarter or annual period could be materially affected by changes in assumptions, the continued availability of insurance coverage or the effectiveness of the Company’s strategies related to these proceedings. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 3 , “Legal Proceedings” and Note 11 in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Failure to Adequately Protect the Company’s Intellectual Property and the Risk of Disputes Involving Intellectual Property Infringement Could Adversely Impact the Company’s Competitive Position, Results of Operations, and Financial Condition. The Company owns patents, trademarks, licenses, and other forms of intellectual property related to its products and continuously invests in research and development that may result in technological innovations and general intellectual property rights. The Company employs various measures to develop, maintain and protect its intellectual property rights. If these measures are not effective, or if the Company’s intellectual property is otherwise infringed, challenged, invalidated or circumvented, the Company may face adverse impacts to its results of operations and/or financial condition. Further, if intellectual property is infringed, challenged, invalidated or circumvented, this could reduce barriers to entry into the Company’s existing lines of business and may result in a loss of market share and adversely impact the Company’s competitive position. Additionally, the Company has registered intellectual property in multiple countries, and the Company’s ability to protect and enforce its intellectual property rights may be limited in foreign countries due to differences in intellectual property protections or proprietary rights laws. If the Company’s intellectual property is infringed, challenged invalidated, or circumvented due to these lesser protections, the Company may face adverse impacts to its results of operations, financial condition, and/or competitive position. Litigation may be necessary to enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights or to defend against infringement claims by third parties. Any litigation or claims brought by the Company could result in costs and diversion of resources, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and/or financial condition. Any intellectual property litigation or claims brought against the Company may lead to litigation expenses, diversion of resources, losses or licensing expenses, or the cessation of selling certain products, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and/or financial condition. The Company’s Intangible Assets, Including Goodwill, are a Significant Portion of Total Assets and a Write-off of Intangible Assets or Goodwill Would Adversely Impact the Company’s Operating Results and Significantly Reduce the Company’s Net Worth. The Company’s total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. At December 31, 2022, goodwill and intangible assets totaled $2,638.1 million and $947.8 million , respectively. These assets primarily result from acquisitions, representing the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the tangible net assets acquired. Annually, or when certain events occur that require a more current valuation, the Company assesses whether there has been an impairment in the value of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of the Company’s reporting units were to fall significantly below forecasted levels, the Company could be required to reflect, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating income for an impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets would adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and net worth. See Note 6 in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further discussion on goodwill and intangible assets. The Company May Face Adverse Effects Resulting from Improper Conduct by Our Employees, Agents or Business Partners. While we strive to maintain high standards, the Company cannot guarantee that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by employees, agents or business partners of ours (or businesses that we acquire or partner with) that would violate laws in the U.S. or foreign countries in which the Company operates, including laws governing payment to government officials, bribery, fraud, conflicts of interest, competition, employment practices and workplace behavior, export and import compliance, economic and trade sanctions, money laundering and data privacy. In particular, recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the SEC, increased enforcement 19 Table of Contents activity by non-U.S. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. The Company’s policies mandate compliance with all anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. However, the Company operates in certain countries that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption. Violations of any of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions or penalties, both monetary and non-monetary, increased costs of compliance and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition and results of operations. General Risk Factors The Company’s Success Depends on Its Executive Management and Other Key Personnel. The Company’s future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of its executive management and other key personnel and their ability to provide the Company with uninterrupted leadership and direction. The loss of the services of any of the executive officers or a failure to provide adequate succession plans for key personnel could have an adverse impact on the Company. The availability of highly qualified talent is limited and the competition for talent is robust. However, the Company provides long-term equity awards and certain other benefits for its executive officers which provides incentives for them to make a commitment to the Company. The Company’s future success will depend on its ability to have adequate succession plans in place and to attract, retain and develop qualified personnel. A failure to efficiently replace executive management members and other key personnel and to attract, retain and develop new qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations and implementation of its strategic plan. Challenges with Respect to Labor Availability Could Negatively Impact the Company’s Ability to Operate or Grow the Business. The Company’s success depends in part on the ability of its businesses to proactively attract, motivate and retain a qualified and highly skilled workforce in an intensely competitive labor market. A failure to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel could adversely affect the Company’s operating results or its ability to operate or grow the business. Additionally, any labor stoppages or labor disruptions, including due to geopolitical unrest, unfavorable economic or industry conditions, catastrophic weather events, natural disasters or the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness could adversely affect the Company’s operating results or its ability to operate or grow the business.