'. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any such statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after such date. 1 Table of Contents PRESENTATION OF DOLLAR AMOUNTS All dollar amounts in this Form 10-K are presented in millions, except for share and per share amounts or where otherwise noted. Throughout this document, percentage and dollar change calculations, which are based on non-rounded dollar values, may not be able to be recalculated using the dollar values in this document due to the rounding of those dollar values. STOCK SPLIT All information contained in this Form 10-K reflects the two-for-one stock split in 2019. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Note – Information in this section is as of year end unless otherwise noted. The year end is December 31, 2021 unless additional years are included or noted. Overview Fastenal Company (together with our subsidiaries, hereinafter referred to as 'Fastenal' or the company or by terms such as we, our, or us) began as a partnership in 1967, and was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1968. We opened our first branch in 1967 in Winona, Minnesota, a city with a population today of approximately 26,000. We began with a marketing strategy of supplying threaded fasteners to customers through a branch network in small, medium-sized, and, in subsequent years, large cities. Over time, that mandate has expanded to a broader range of industrial and construction supplies spanning more than nine major product lines. How we engage with our customers has similarly evolved to include Onsites, Fastenal Managed Inventory and eCommerce. We provide additional descriptions of our product lines and market channels later in this document. The large majority of our transactions are business-to-business, though we also have some walk-in retail business. At the end of 2021, we had 3,209 in-market locations (defined in the table below) in 25 countries supported by 15 distribution centers in North America (12 in the United States, two in Canada, and one in Mexico), and one in Europe, and we employed 20,507 people. We believe our success can be attributed to the high quality of our employees and their convenient proximity to our customers, and our ability to offer customers a full range of products and services to reduce their total cost of procurement. Our Channels to Market We engage our customers primarily through branch and Onsite locations. Branches and Onsites exist very close to our customers, usually within miles in the case of the former and most often within or immediately proximate to our customers' physical locations in the case of the latter, and together constitute our 'in-market' network. Many of our customers engage with us through eCommerce, but most of our sales through this channel are with customers that use eCommerce to supplement our service through our other channels. The following table shows our consolidated net sales for each of the last ten fiscal years; the number of branch, Onsite, and total in-market locations at the end of each of the last ten fiscal years; their respective sales, as well as the average monthly sales per location that were generated from our branch and Onsite locations; and our revenue generated from non-traditional sources: (1) Revenues attributable to our traditional and international branch locations, and our Onsite locations, respectively. (2) Average sales per month considers the average active base of branches and Onsites, respectively, in the given year, factoring in the beginning and ending location count, divided by total revenues attributable to our branch and Onsite locations, further divided by twelve months, respectively. This information is presented in thousands. (3) Onsite information prior to 2014 is intentionally omitted. While such locations have existed since 1992, we did not specifically track their number until we identified our Onsite program as a growth driver in 2014. (4) This portion of revenue is generated outside of our traditional in-market location presence, examples of which include revenues arising from our custom in-house manufacturing, industrial services, leased locker arrangements, and other non-traditional sources of revenue. The significant increase in other revenue in 2020 largely reflects the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in that period and the substantial sales of pandemic-related products that we direct-shipped (versus selling through our in-market locations) as a means of delivering critical supplies more quickly. The decline in other revenue in 2021 largely reflects the absence of such direct-shipped revenue as the supply chain for such products stabilized. (5) 'In-market locat ions' is defined as the sum of the total number of branch locations and the total number of Onsite locations. 3 Table of Contents This structure has evolved over time as a result of one of Fastenal's guiding principles since inception: that we can improve our service by getting closer to the customer. This has been achieved by opening branch locations and, more recently, Onsite locations. Today we believe there are few companies that offer our North American in-market location coverage. In 2021, roughly 52% of our sales and 50% of our in-market locations were in major Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs) (populations in the United States and Canada greater than 500,000 people), while 21% of our sales and 19% of our in-market locations were in small MSAs (populations under 500,000 people), and 27% of our sales and 31% of our in-market locations were not in an MSA. In our view, this has proven to be an efficient means of providing customers with a broad range of products and services on a timely basis. Maintaining operations that are physically proximate to our customers' operations have represented, and continue to represent, the foundation of our service approach. We have two primary versions of our branch locations : 1.) A 'traditional branch' typically services a wide variety of customers, including our larger national and regional accounts as well as retail customers. Locations are selected primarily based on their proximity to our distribution network, population statistics, and employment data for manufacturing and non-residential construction companies. We stock all branches with inventory drawn from all of our product lines, and over time, where appropriate, our district and branch personnel may tailor the inventory offering to the needs of the local customer base. Since Fastenal's founding and through 2013, traditional branch openings were a primary growth driver for the company, and we experienced net openings each year over that time span. However, new growth drivers, business models (Onsites), and business tools (digital solutions) have emerged and diminished the direct role of traditional branch openings in our growth. Traditional branches were entirely U.S.-based until 1994, when we opened our first location in Canada. At the end of 2021, we had 1,649 traditional branches in the United States and Canada, and they represented 56.8% of total sales. Traditional branches are also differentiated by their operating styles. Certain locations are Customer Service Branches (CSBs), which tend to feature a showroom, regular hours during which it is open to the public, and our standard stocking model of products designed for contractors. CSBs are similar in function to a hardware store and they often conduct some business with non-account or retail-like customers. However, this customer set typically represents less than 10% of sales at this type of location. Other locations operate as Customer Fulfillment Centers (CFCs), which tend to feature a limited showroom, reduced hours of access to the public, greater usage of will-call, and stock customer-specific inventory. These tend to appear and function more like an industrial supply house and stocking location and tend not to have transactions with non-account or retail-like customers unless it is a will call arrangement related to an online transaction. The choice of operating style is made by local leadership and is based on local market considerations. At the end of 2021, 35% of our traditional branches operated as a CSB and 65% operated as a CFC. 2.) An 'international branch' is the format we typically deploy outside the United States and Canada. We first expanded outside of the United States and Canada when we opened a branch in Mexico in 2001. Since then, we have continued to expand our global footprint and at the end of 2021, we operated in 23 countries outside of the United States and Canada. Mexico is the largest of these, and we also operate in Europe, Asia, and Central and South America. Our go-to-market strategy in countries outside of the United States and Canada focuses primarily on servicing large, national account customers disproportionately concentrated in manufacturing. From a product perspective, these customers are more heavily oriented toward planned fastener spend, though non-fastener manufacturing, repair, and operations (MRO) spend is becoming more common in these markets. Despite strong growth in our international business in recent years, we are not as well recognized in many of our locations outside of the U.S. and Canada as we are in the U.S. and Canada. However, our ability to provide a consistent service model, including vending, bin stocks, and Onsites, on a global basis is attractive to our customer base, much of which are the foreign operations of North American-based companies. At the end of 2021, we had 144 international branches operating outside the U.S. and Canada, and they represented 5.2% of total sales. Traditional and international branches sell to multiple customers. We will continue to open traditional branches as the company sees fit. However, in each year since 2013, the company has experienced a net decline in its total branch count including net declines of 210 branches in 2021. Our total decline since 2013 is 894 branches. Onsite locations may influence the trend in our traditional branch count over time, but have not been the primary reason for our traditional branch closings. The Onsite concept is not new, in that we entered into the first such arrangement in 1992. However, it was largely a local option that grew slowly before we identified it as a growth driver in 2014. We have made substantial investments toward accelerating its traction in the marketplace since 2015. In this model, we provide dedicated sales and service to a single customer from a location that is physically within the customers' facility (or, in some cases, at a strategically placed off-site location), with inventory that is specific to the customers' needs. In many cases, we are shifting revenue with the customer from an existing branch location, though we are beginning to see more new customer opportunities arise as a result of our Onsite capabilities. The model is best suited to larger companies, though we believe we can provide a higher degree of service at a lower level of revenue than most of our competitors. It has been our experience that sales mix at our Onsite locations produces a lower gross profit percentage than at our branch locations, but we gain revenue with the customer and our cost to serve is lower. We have identified over 15,000 manufacturing and construction customer locations in the United States with potential to implement the Onsite service model. These include customers with which we have an existing national account relationship today, and potential customers we are aware of due to our local market presence with which we do not have a meaningful relationship today. However, as awareness of our capabilities has grown, we have identified additional Onsite 4 Table of Contents potential with certain agencies of state, provincial and local government customers and academia. We also believe as we follow our existing national account customers outside the United States our market potential for Onsite solutions will continue to expand. The international opportunity is substantial, but our speed is limited by the relatively underdeveloped infrastructure in comparison to the United States. We expect revenues from Onsite arrangements to increase meaningfully over time. We had 1,416 Onsite locations as of December 31, 2021, and they represented 31.6% of total sales, and signed 274, 223, and 362 new O nsite locations in 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. We believe the marketplace can support 375 to 400 new Onsite signings annually. We did not achieve that level of signings in 2021, 2020, or 2019 as certain market variables, including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain constraints, and labor shortages created challenges in our ability to engage with key decision makers and caused many of our customers to focus on short-term crisis management rather than long-term strategic planning. These conditions remain in force at the beginning of 2022. It is our intention to sign 375 to 400 new Onsites in 2022, though achieving this may require some relief in the factors described above. The following table provides a summary of the branches and Onsite locations we operated at the end of each year, as well as the openings, closings, and conversions during each year: (1) Mexico, Puerto Rico, and Dominican Republic (2) Panama, Brazil, and Chile (3) Singapore, China, Malaysia, and Thailand (4) The Netherlands, Hungary, United Kingdom, Germany, Czech Republic, Italy, Romania, Sweden, Poland, Austria, Switzerland, Ireland, Spain, France, and Belgium (5) The net impact of non-in-market locations or Onsite locations converted to branches, branches converted to Onsite locations or non-in-market locations, and closures of branches or Onsite locations. We believe the profitability of our in-market locations is affected by the average revenue produced by each site. In any in-market location, certain costs related to growth are at least partly variable, such as employee-related expenses, while others, like rent and utility costs, tend to be fixed. As a result, it has been shown that as an in-market location increases its sales base over time it typically will achieve a higher operating profit margin. This ability to increase our operating profit margin is influenced by: (1) general growth based on end market expansion and/or market share gains, (2) the age of the in-market location (new locations tend to be less profitable due to start-up costs and, in the case of a traditional branch, the time necessary to generate a customer base), and/or (3) rationalization actions, as in the past several years we have seen a net decline in our traditional 5 Table of Contents branch base. There are many reasons why local or regional management might decide to close a location. Key customers may have migrated to a different part of the market, factories may have closed, our own supply chain capabilities in a market may have evolved to allow us to service some areas with fewer traditional branches, and/or our customers may have transitioned to our Onsite model. An Onsite may also close because local or regional management determines that the business at the location is unlikely to scale sufficiently to justify our being on premise, in which case the relationship often reverts to being managed in a local traditional branch. The paths to higher operating profit margins are slightly different in a traditional branch versus an Onsite location, as the former will tend to have more fixed costs to leverage while the latter will tend to have a smaller fixed cost burden but have greater leverage of its employee-related expenses. In the short term, the Onsite program can hurt the profitability of our existing branch network as it can pull established revenue away from an existing branch even as its fixed expenses are largely unchanged. We utilize additional types of selling locations within our network, but these tend to be more specialized in nature and relatively few in number, comprising less tha n five percent of our total selling locations. We remain committed to a large, robust service network, including traditional branches; it r emains the indispensable foundation of our business. In any given year, it is difficult to predict whether our total branch count will rise or fall. How ever, with the growth we anticipate in Onsite locations, we believe our total in-market locations will increase over time. Our Business Tools Fastenal Managed Inventory (FMI ® ) Over time, we have invested in and developed various technologies that allow us to put physical product closer to the point of use in a customer location, increase the visibility of a customer's supply chain (to the customer as well our personnel), and/or improve the ability to monitor or control usage. While there are isolated exceptions, these technologies are not themselves channels to the market but rather are utilized by our branch and Onsite channels to enhance service to our customers. Collectively, these tools comprise our Fastenal Managed Inventory (FMI) Technology suite. We believe our fully integrated distribution network allows us to manage the supply chain for all sizes of customers. FMI programs tend to generate a higher frequency of business transactions and, coupled with our fully integrated distribution network, foster a strong relationship with customers. Bin stock (FASTStock ℠ and FASTBin ℠ ) programs, where product is held in bins in a customer facility, is similar to our vending business in that it involves moving product closer to the point of customer use within their facilities. Such programs have existed in the industrial supply industry for a considerable time, with open bins being clustered in a racking system, each of which holds original equipment manufacturing (OEM) fasteners, MRO fasteners, and/or non-fastener products that are consumed in the customers' operations. Historically, these bins were simply plastic and metal containers that held product and were visually inspected by our customers or Fastenal personnel to determine replenishment need. These bins in some cases are organized and labeled into customer plan-o-grams, which we call FASTStock and allow for the scanning of product when product is at a minimum desired level. However, in 2019 we introduced our FASTBin technology. FASTBin is the evolution of FASTStock into a set of electronic inventory management solutions that automate process controls by providing 24/7 continuous inventory monitoring, real-time inventory visibility, and more efficient replenishment of bin stock parts. These technologies come in three forms: (1) Scales utilize a high-precision weight sensor system to measure the exact quantity on hand in real time, automatically sending an order to Fastenal when inventory hits an established minimum. (2) Infrared uses infrared sensors lining individual bins to provide real-time visibility of approximate quantity and inventory values, automatically sending an order to Fastenal when inventory hits an established minimum threshold. (3) RFID is a Kanban system that utilizes RFID tags so that when an empty bin is removed from the rack and placed in a replenishment zone (also part of the same racking system) an automatic refill order is generated. These technologies provide superior monitoring capabilities and immediate visibility to consumption changes, allowing for a lean supply chain, reducing risk of stock-outs, and providing a more efficient labor model for both the customer and the supplier. Industrial vending (FASTVend ℠ ) was introduced in 2008 to provide our customers with improved product monitoring and control. Benefits include reduced consumption, reduced purchase orders, reduced product handling, and 24-hour product availability, and we believe our company has a market advantage by virtue of our extensive in-market network of inventory and local personnel. For these reasons, the initiative began to gain significant traction in 2011 and we finished 2021 with approximately 101,600 FASTVend non-weighted devices in the field, which excludes approximately 12,000 non-weighted vending devices that are part of a leased locker program with a specific retail customer. We believe industrial vending has proven its effectiveness in strengthening our relationships with customers and helped to streamline the supply chain where it has been utilized. We also believe there remains considerable room to grow our current installed base before it begins to approach the number of units we believe the market can support. We estimate the market could support as many as 1.7 million vending units and, as a result, we anticipate continued growth in installed devices over time. Our industrial vending portfolio consists of 24 different vending devices, with 17 of these being in either a helix or locker format. Our most utilized models include the helix-based FAST 5000 and our 12- and 18-door lockers; combined, these comprise approximately 68% of our installed base of devices. These are either configurable or are available in multiple 6 Table of Contents configurations to accommodate the various sizes and forms of products that will be dispensed to match the unique needs of our customers. Target monthly revenues per device typically range from under $1,000 to in excess of $3,000, with our flagship FAST 5000 device having a targeted monthly throughput of $2,000. Beginning in 2020, we began to report 'Weighted FMI Device' signings and installations, which is the combined activity of FASTBin and FASTVend converted into a comparable unit of measure, or 'machine equivalent unit' (MEU). This conversion takes the targeted monthly throughput of each FMI device signed or installed and compares it to the $2,000 target monthly throughput of our FAST 5000 vending device. For example, an RFID enclosure, with target monthly revenue of $2,000 would be counted as '1.00' machine equivalent ($2,000/$2,000 = 1.00). An infrared bin, with target monthly revenue of $40, would be counted as '0.02' machine equivalent ($40/$2,000 = 0.02). In 2022, we anticipate weighted FMI device signings to be in a range of 23,000 to 25,000 MEUs. Similar to Onsite, we believe the marketplace can support at least this level of signings annually, though we did not achieve it in 2021 as variables including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain constraints, and labor shortages created challenges in our ability to engage with key decision makers and caused many of our customers to focus on short-term crisis management rather than long-term strategic planning. These conditions remain in force at the beginning of 2022. We acknowledge that achieving this may require some relief in the factors that negatively impacted our efforts in the preceding two years. The table below summarizes the signings and installations of, and sales through, our FMI devices. Digital Solutions We also invest in digital solutions that aim to deliver strategic value for our customers, leverage local inventory for same-day solutions, and provide efficient service. While there is a transactional element to our digital services, many of the solutions we invest in are intended to add value to customers by illuminating various elements of their supply chain. These solutions take many forms: 1.) Transactional. Our transactional, or eCommerce, platforms (web verticals or integrated catalogs) provides a means for our customers to effectively and efficiently procure MRO and unplanned spend. One of our eCommerce solutions, Fastenal EXPRESS, guides our customers to products which are locally stocked, capitalizing on our existing location footprint, in order to provide same-day or early next-day service for online orders. This positions us to outperform what is most typically a 24- to 48-hour fulfillment expectation. While there is a retail component to our transactional digital services, most of the revenue attributable to this is with our traditional customer base, nearly all of which purchase digitally as a supplement to other channels and tools that it utilizes with Fastenal. We attribute the revenue generated from a customer location through our transactional platforms to the in-market location that traditionally services that customer location. 2.) Digital Visibility. Certain of our digital capabilities are intended to produce operational efficiencies for our customers and ourselves and/or to deliver strategic value by illuminating customer supply chains. For instance, we have developed, and continue to develop, 'Mobility' applications, one example of which is our Vending App, which provides a number of benefits. It provides easy, real-time information pertaining to a customer's local inventory position within their point-of-use devices. It incorporates customer usage data to recommend optimized parts and quantity for specific devices, improving customer inventories while reducing the risk of stock-outs. Moving our fulfillment process from a vending device-based keypad function to a tablet or scanning interaction improves the restock process (reduced risk of product outages), reducing time consumed (greater efficiency) while improving accuracy (improved quality assurance). We will continue to build out our suite of Mobility applications. We also have 'eProcurement Solutions'. Electronic Data Interchange (EDI), is the connectivity between our system and our customers' procurement systems – whether a direct integration into their Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system or through a third-party procurement network or marketplace. These solutions provide system-to-system exchange of electronic 7 Table of Contents procurement documents (such as purchase orders, advanced shipping notices, and invoices for direct and indirect spend). Our eProcurement Solutions provide a bridge between our FMI replenishment activity and our customers' procurement systems – creating an efficient, accurate and streamlined procure-to-pay (P2P) process. 'FAST 360°' acts as the bridge between our FMI footprint and a customer's view into our managed service model. FAST 360° surfaces data around these managed services as one central source of information as we manage our customers' OEM and MRO product lines. This is achieved through our FMI technologies providing locational data around our FASTStock, FASTBin, and FASTVend footprint, and FAST 360° being the means of surfacing that data and activities to our customers. 3.) Analytics. We provide solution-based digital platforms (e.g., web verticals or integrated catalogs) which leverages our existing strategic environment by creating a means of migrating online spend offline, which illuminates our supply chain capabilities. This is marketed under the 'FAST 360° Analytics' label, as it is an enterprise-centric extension of the digital visibility capabilities of FAST 360°. We bring value to our customers, as well as ourselves, by using these digital platforms and analytics to shift product from a 'non-sticky' transactional environment (which is online) to a 'sticky' strategic environment (which is our FMI programs). We create customer cost savings opportunities through this directive by lowering the total cost of ownership (TCO) as the objective is to 'shrink' the unplanned (and traditionally high cost), purely transactional spend bucket. Digital Footprint We view our collective Digital Footprint as comprised of sales through FMI (FASTStock, FASTBin, and FASTVend) plus that proportion of our eCommerce sales that do not represent billings of FMI services. We believe the data that is created through our digital capabilities enhances product visibility, traceability, and control that reduces risk in operations and creates ordering and fulfillment efficiencies for both ourselves and our customers. As a result, we believe our opportunity to grow our business will be enhanced through the continued development and expansion of our digital capabilities. Our Digital Footprint represented 42.7% of sales in 2021, the first year in which we explicitly measured it. We believe our integrated physical and virtual model, when paired with our national (and increasingly international) scope, represents a unique capability in industrial distribution when compared to eCommerce as an independent sales channel. We expect to continue to build out and develop our digital solutions over time. We believe our global channels to market and business tools, including those that we consider to be growth drivers (Onsites, international expansion, FMI, and digital solutions), represent alternative means to address the requirements of certain customer groups. They get us closer to the customer and to where the product is actually consumed. This is consistent with our strategy and offers significant value by providing differentiated and 'sticky' service. Combined with ongoing strategic investments in end market initiatives as well as selling (in-market and otherwise) and non-selling (engineering, product specialists, manufacturing, etc.) employees, we offer a range of capabilities that is difficult for large and small competitors to replicate. Distribution Network We operate fifteen regional distribution centers in North America. Twelve are in the United States – Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, Washington, California, Utah, North Carolina, Kansas, and Mississippi – and three are outside the United States – Ontario, Canada; Alberta, Canada; and Nuevo Leon, Mexico. We also operate one distribution center in Europe, located in Dordrecht, Netherlands. These distribution centers give us approximately 4.9 million square feet of distribution capacity. These distribution centers are located so as to permit deliveries of two to five times per week to our in-market locations using our trucks and overnight delivery by surface common carrier, with approximately 81% of our North American in-market locations receiving service four to five times per week. The distribution centers in Indiana and Kansas also serve as 'master' hubs, with those in California and North Carolina serving as 'secondary' hubs to support the needs of the in-market locations in their geographic regions as well as provide a broader selection of products for the in-market locations serviced by the other distribution centers. We currently operate our Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, Washington, California, North Carolina, Kansas, and Ontario, Canada distribution centers with automated storage and retrieval systems (ASRS). These eleven distribution centers operate with greater speed and efficiency, and currently handle approximately 95% of our picking activity. We expect to invest in additional automation technologies, expand existing distribution facilities, and/or add new distribution centers over time as our scale and the number of our in-market locations increases. In 2018, we began to deploy Local Inventory Fulfillment Terminals (LIFTs). These are small distribution facilities situated where we have a dense population of FMI devices. Traditionally, responsibility for product fulfillment to vending devices and bin stocks have centered on individual branches, which were responsible for stocking and packaging inventory, delivering to a customer's location, and refilling the customer's devices. As our sales from FMI devices have grown, this approach has resulted in redundant inventory in a territory and a greater proportion of our sales personnel's time being spent on non-sales activities. By centralizing inventory and packaging into a LIFT and relying on dedicated LIFT fulfillment personnel for delivery and device replenishment, which we refer to as 'drop-and-scatter', we can reduce FMI-dedicated inventory, provide more consistent and predictable service to our customer's FMI devices, and free up time for our sales personnel to focus on customer penetration 8 Table of Contents and acquisition. Our transportation network allows us to expand the geographic reach of our LIFTs by deploying a 'drop-and-deliver' model. In this case, a LIFT is responsible for stocking and packaging, with the inventory and accuracy benefits that come with that focus, but the delivery and replenishment continues to be performed by local branch personnel. As the economics of a LIFT depend on device and sales density, there will be geographic areas, particularly in non-MSAs, where supporting an FMI platform will remain the responsibility of local branch personnel. In 2021, less than 5% of our FMI revenue was serviced through a LIFT, but over time we believe this figure can approximate 40% of our FMI revenue. Information Systems Our Information Systems teams develop, implement, secure, and maintain the computer-based technology used to support business functions within Fastenal. Corporate, digital, distribution center, and vending systems are primarily supported from central locations, while each selling location uses a locally installed Point-Of-Sale (POS) system. The systems consist of custom in-house developed, purchased, and subscription licensed software. A dedicated Wide Area Network (WAN) is used to provide connectivity between systems and authorized users. Trademarks and Service Marks We conduct business under various trademarks and service marks, and we utilize a variety of designs and tag lines in connection with each of these marks, including Where Industry Meets Innovation ™ . Although we do not believe our operations are substantially dependent upon any of our trademarks or service marks, we consider the 'Fastenal' name and our other trademarks and service marks to be valuable to our business. We have registered, or applied for the registration of, various trademarks and service marks. Our registered trademarks and service marks are presumed valid in the United States as long as they are in use, their registrations are properly maintained, and they have not been found to have become generic. Registrations of trademarks and service marks can also generally be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks and service marks are in use. Products Fastenal was founded as a distributor of fasteners and related industrial and construction supplies. This includes threaded fasteners, bolts, nuts, screws, studs, and related washers, as well as miscellaneous supplies and hardware, such as pins, machinery keys, concrete anchors, metal framing systems, wire rope, strut, rivets, and related accessories. Our fastener product line, which is primarily sold under the Fastenal product name, represented 33.3% of our consolidated net sales in 2021. Fastener distribution is complex. In most cases, the product has low per unit value but high per unit weight. This presents challenges in moving product from suppliers, most of whom are outside of North America, to our distribution centers, as well as from our distribution centers to our branch, Onsite, and customer locations. At the same time, fasteners are ubiquitous in manufactured products, construction projects, and maintenance and repair while also exhibiting great geometric variability based on use and application. In many cases, a fastener is a critical part in machine uptime and/or effective use. These features have greatly influenced our logistical development, training and educational programs, support capabilities, and inventory decisions, which we believe would be difficult for competitors to replicate. In 1993, we began to aggressively add additional product lines, and these represented 66.7% of our consolidated sales in 2021. These products, which we refer to as non-fastener product lines, tend to move through the same distribution channel, get used by the same customers, and utilize the same logistical capabilities as the original fastener product line. This logic is as true today as it was when we first began to diversify our product offering. However, over time, the supply chain for these product lines has evolved in ways independent of the fastener line. For instance, non-fastener product lines benefit disproportionately from our development of industrial vending. The most significant category of non-fastener products is our safety supplies product line, which accounted for 21.2% of our consolidated sales in 2021. This product line has enjoyed dramatic sales growth in the last ten years which we believe is directly attributable to our success in industrial vending over that period. The COVID-19 pandemic uniquely impacted our safety supplies product line. In 2020, we saw substantial growth based on our ability to quickly source and deliver supplies, such as disposable masks, gloves, and gowns that were critical for governments, health care providers, and businesses to increase employee safety while maintaining operations. In 2021, we experienced a decline as better industrial growth was more than offset by a decline in demand for pandemic-related supplies that reflected the stabilization of the supply chain for critical products. Going forward, we expect traditional variables such as market performance, cross-selling, and vending adoption to be the primary drivers of performance for our safety supplies product line. However, we also believe the net effect of the pandemic has been to increase safety products as a percentage of product sales as safety protocols at many of our customers are likely to be sustained into the future. In the last several decades we have added 'private label' brands (often referred to as 'Exclusive Brands', or brands sold exclusively through Fastenal) to our non-fastener offering. These private label brands represented approximately 13% of our consolidated net sales in 2021. We believe it is also appropriate to think about our private label sales as a percentage of our non-fastener sales for two reasons: (1) there is not a well-defined branded vs. private label dynamic in fasteners as there is in non- 9 Table of Contents fasteners; and (2) non-fastener data is more comparable to information reported by our peers, who do not generally have our significant mix of fastener business. Private label brands represented approximately 20% of our total non-fastener sales in 2021. Our private label brand sales as a percentage of our total non-fastener sales declined in 2020, reflecting strong growth of COVID-related supplies, which were not sold under a private label brand, and recession-related weak safety demand from traditional manufacturing and construction customers, many of which are marketed under a private label brand. The performance of our private label brands in 2021 more closely resembled trends that preceded 2020, where we have typically experienced an increase in sales of private label products as a percentage of total non-fastener sales through specific sales channels such as Onsite locations, branches, and vending. Often, these increases through specific channels are masked by the relative sales growth we experience with Onsite locations, which typically have a lower percentage of total sales being private label than is the case in branches or sales through vending devices. We plan to continue to add other product lines in the future. Detailed information about our sales by product line is provided in Note 2 of the N otes to Co nsolidated Financial Statements included later in this Form 10-K. Each product line may contain multiple product categories. Inventory Control Our inventory stocking levels are determined using our computer systems, by our sales personnel at in-market locations, by our district and regional leadership, and by our product development team. The data used for this determination is derived from sales activity from all of our selling locations, from individual selling locations, and from different geographic areas. It is also derived from supplier information and from customer demographic information. The computer system monitors the inventory level for all stock items and triggers replenishment, or prompts a buyer to purchase, as necessary, based on an established minimum-maximum stocking level. All branches stock a base inventory and may expand beyond preset inventory levels as deemed appropriate by the district and branch personnel. Non-branch selling locations (primarily Onsites) stock inventory based on customer-specific arrangements. Inventories in distribution centers are established from computerized data for the selling locations served by the respective distribution center. Inventory quantities are continuously re-balanced utilizing an automated transfer mechanism we call 'inventory re-distribution'. Inventory held at our selling locations, close to customers and available on a same-day basis, accounted for approximately 57% of our total inventory at the end of 2021. Inventory held at our distribution centers and manufacturing locations accounted for approximately 43% of our total inventory at the end of 2021. The distribution center and manufacturing location inventory, when combined with our trucking network, allows for fast, next-day service at a very competitive cost. Manufacturing and Support Services Operations In 2021, a pproximately 96% of our consolidated net sales were attributable to products manufactured by other companies to industry standards or to customer specific requirements. The remaining 4% relate d to products manufactured, modified, or repaired by our manufacturing businesses or our support services. The manufactured products consist primarily of non-standard sizes of threaded fasteners and hardware made to customers' specifications at one of our nine manufacturing locations, or standard sizes manufactured under our Holo-Krome ® , Cardinal Fasteners ® , and Spensall ® product lines. The services provided by the support services group include, but are not limited to, the repair of tools and hoists, the fabrication of chain sling and hose, band saw blade welding, and other light manufacturing and fabrication. We may add additional services in the future. However, we engage in these activities primarily as a service to our customers and expect them to continue to contribute in the range of 4% to 6% of our consolidated net sales in the future. Sources of Supply We use a large number of suppliers for the standard stock items we distribute. Most items distributed by our network can be purchased from several sources, although preferred sourcing is used for some stock items to facilitate quality control. No single supplier accounted for more than 5% of our inventory purchases in 2021. In the case of fasteners and our private label non-fastener products, we have a large number of suppliers but these suppliers are heavily concentrated in a single geographic area, Asia. Within Asia, suppliers in China represent a significant source of product. Further, in many cases where we source directly from a North American supplier, the original country of origin of the acquired parts is the supplier's Asian facilities. As a result, the cost and effectiveness of our supply chain is dependent on relatively unfettered trade across geographic regions. Beyond inventory, we have some concentration of purchasing activity. For example, we utilize a limited number of suppliers for our distribution equipment and our vehicle fleet, and primarily one supplier for our industrial vending equipment. However, we believe there are viable alternatives to each of these, if necessary. 10 Table of Contents Customers and Marketing We believe our success can be attributed to our ability to offer customers a full line of quality products, our convenient locations and diverse methods of providing those products, and the superior service orientation and expertise of our employees. Most of our customers are in the manufacturing and non-residential construction markets. The manufacturing market includes both OEM and MRO customers and historically has represented approximately 65% of our business. The non-residential construction market includes general, electrical, plumbing, sheet metal, and road contractors and historically has represented approximately 10-15% of our business. Other users of our products include farmers, truckers, railroads, oil exploration companies, oil production and refinement companies, mining companies, federal, state, and local governmental entities, schools, and certain retail trades. Based on our customer profile being oriented toward manufacturing and non-residential construction, our business has historically been cyclical. However, we believe our model has certain features that moderate the volatility of our results around cyclical changes. First, we have a large number of customers that serve a wide range of segments within the broader manufacturing and non-residential construction market. While slumps in one industry served by us can rapidly spread to other, interrelated industries, locally or globally, we still believe this customer and market segment diversity provides some insulation from economic changes that are not across multiple industries and geographic regions. Second, while a meaningful part of our revenue is derived from products that are incorporated into final products, we also have a significant portion of revenue that is derived from products used to maintain facilities. This latter source of revenue tends to be directly influenced by cyclical changes, but its rate of change tends to be less dramatic. In 1995, we developed a national accounts program aimed at making our products and services more competitive with customers that operate multiple facilities. These customers tend to have more complex supply chains and structures for managing the OEM and MRO products we provide while at the same time, by virtue of their size and opportunity, have more negotiating power. We believe our local presence as part of a national, and increasingly international, footprint, our ability to provide a consistent level of high-touch service and broad product availability, and our ancillary capabilities around manufacturing, quality control, and product knowledge, are attractive to these larger customers. We believe our advantage with these customers has only been strengthened as we have added other channels, such as Onsite, FMI, digital solutions, and resources to serve these customers' unique demands. As a result, in 2021, national accounts represented 56.6% of our sales, compared to 55.0% and 53.6% in 2020 and 2019, respectively. We believe sales to national accounts customers will continue to increase as a percent of our total sales over time. In an in-market location, our customers' business activity is tracked through 'active accounts'. Customers often have more than one active account at a single in-market location, reflecting their utilization of different Fastenal services, and frequently have active accounts at many in-market locations across our global network. During 2021, our total number of active customer accounts (defined as the average number of accounts per month with purchase activity of at least $100) was approximately 132,000, while our total 'core accounts' (defined as the average number of accounts per month with purchase activity of at least $500) was approximately 77,000. During 2021, no single customer represented 5% or more of our consolidated net sales. Direct marketing continues to be the backbone of our business through our local in-market selling personnel, as well as our non-branch selling personnel. We support our sales team with multi-channel marketing including direct mail and digital marketing, print and radio advertising, targeted campaigns, promotional flyers, and events. In recent years, our national advertising has been focused on a NASCAR ® sponsorship through our partnership with Roush Fenway Keselowski Racing ® as the primary sponsor of the No. 17 car in the NASCAR ® Cup Series, driven by Chris Buescher. In 2020, our sports marketing efforts were extended when the National Hockey League (NHL ® ) awarded us as the preferred MRO supplier of the sport. Seasonality Seasonality has some impact on our sales. The first and fourth quarters are typically our lowest volume periods, given their overlap with winter months in North America during which our direct and indirect sales to customers in the non-residential construction market typically slow due to inclement weather. The fourth quarter also tends to be more greatly affected by the Thanksgiving (October in Canada and November in the United States), Christmas, and New Year holiday periods, due to plant shut downs. In contrast, the second and third quarters typically have higher revenues due to stronger non-residential construction activity and relatively fewer holidays (although Good Friday will sometimes fall in the second quarter and the 4th of July will always fall in the third quarter). Competition Our business is highly competitive, and includes large national distributors whose strongest presence tends to be in more densely populated areas, and smaller regional or local distributors, which compete in many of the smaller markets in which we have branches. We believe the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products, in no particular order, are customer service, price, convenience, product availability, and cost saving solutions. 11 Table of Contents Market strategies in industrial distribution are varied. With respect to products, many of the larger distributors have trended toward a broad-line offering over time; however, they are often still closely associated with a specific product that can influence their ability to capture market share. This association with a specific product line is often even more pronounced among smaller competitors, though many smaller competitors do deploy a broad-line model. Means of serving the customer are even more diverse. For instance, many competitors maintain a local, branch-based presence in their markets, while others use vans to sell products in markets away from their main warehouses, while still others rely on catalogs or telemarketing sales. Recent years have seen the emergence of eCommerce solutions, such as websites, and while this channel has been embraced by many traditional distributors it also has introduced non-traditional, web-based competitors into the marketplace. The diversity of product and service models supported in the marketplace is a reflection of the equally diverse product and service needs of the customer base. The large majority of our customers utilize multiple channels, from a single distributor or from a range of distributors, to procure the products they need in their operations. We believe that better service, and a competitive selling advantage, can be provided by maintaining a physical selling and stocking presence closer to the customers' location(s). As a result, we maintain branches in small, medium, and large markets, each offering a wide variety of products. The convenience of a large number of branches in a given area, combined with our ability to provide frequent deliveries to such branches from centrally located distribution centers, facilitates the prompt and efficient distribution of products. We also believe our FMI solutions, supported by an in-market location, provides a unique way to provide our customers convenient access to products and cost saving solutions using a business model not easily replicated by our competitors. Having trained personnel at each in-market location also enhances our ability to compete (see 'Employees' below). Our Onsite service model provides us with a strategic advantage with our larger customers. Building on our core business strategy of the local branch, the Onsite model provides value to our customers through customized service while giving us a competitive advantage through stronger relationships with those customers, all with a relatively low incremental investment given the existing branch and distribution structure. Human Capital Resources Employees At the end of 2021, we employed 20,507 full and part-time employees. Of these, approximately 71% held an in-market or non-branch selling role. We characterize these personnel as follows: (1) Our non-in-market selling employee count has grown in recent years due to an increased focus on resources to support our growth drivers, particularly Onsite and national account growth. (2) Administrative primarily includes our Sales Support, Information Technology, Finance and Accounting, Human Resources, and senior leadership roles and functions. Our administrative employee count has also grown in recent years due to increased personnel investments in information technology and operational support, such as purchasing and product development. Employee Profile As of December 31, 2021, we had 20,507 employees worldwide, with 16,548 of those employees located within the United States (U.S.), 2,568 employees located in Canada and Mexico, and 1,391 employees located overseas in 22 other countries throughout the world. Based on our EEO-1 data for 2020, which is the most recent period for which data is available and our most recently filed information, in the United States females and minorities constitute 24.4% and 20.5% of our workforce, respectively. Based on U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data, we believe Fastenal's mix of female and minority employees is generally consistent with the proportion of females and minorities working in manufacturing and construction, which is representative of the pool of employees from which we might draw candidates. The proportion of females and minorities in our workforce declined slightly in 2020. It is difficult to know what the impact was from the severe social disruption in the period caused by COVID-19. 12 Table of Contents Generally, though, we believe this data is best viewed over time rather than year-to-year. On this basis, there is a clear trend toward greater diversity in our business. In the eight years since 2012, our female and minority workforces have grown 2.7x and 3.8x faster, respectively, than our overall U.S. workforce. This trend reflects multiple dynamics in our business evolution, including the natural progression of our geographic expansion, the cycle of our promote-from-within philosophy, and efforts to improve hiring processes over time. Health and Safety Employee health and safety continues to be a priority in every aspect of our business. We've taken a multi-faceted approach to safety that helps us understand and reduce hazards in our business. Trainings, audits, inspections, risk assessments, safety coaching, and employee engagement are all programs that help us consistently manage our facility and employee safety. Our internal scorecard system and safety management system ensures we maintain focus on a variety of risks while we sustain an inclusive safety environment that contributes to innovation and improved performance. We continue to expand and evolve our safety programs to better meet our employee needs and workplace conditions as our business grows. This commitment to, and continuous improvement towards, a safer work environment for our employees has generated excellent results. A widely accepted measure of organizational health and safety is the Experience Modification Rate (EMR). An organization's EMR is established through the comparison of a company's past and expected losses incurred through workplace injury against industry averages, which are compiled by the National Council on Compensation Insurance and consider unique variables such as the size and characteristics of an organization. Industry averages are benchmarked at a 1.00 EMR, with a reduction in the rate being reflective of an organization's ability to implement superior safety procedures and protocols, resulting in a safer environment and reducing both personnel and financial risk. In 2021, the most recent year for which this figure has been calculated, Fastenal had an EMR of 0.45, which is 55% better than the average performance rate for our industry. In 2021, EHS Today , a health and safety trade organization, recognized Fastenal as one of 'America's Safest Companies', an award received by just over 250 companies since 2002. According to EHS, this honor reflects: support from leadership for health and safety efforts; employee involvement in health and safety processes; innovative solutions to safety challenges; comprehensive training programs; evidence that incident prevention is the cornerstone of the safety process; good communication about the value of safety; a way to substantiate the benefits of the safety process; and injury and illness rates below the industry average. This recognition reflects the priority that members of our organization place on health and safety. Employment and Compensation Philosophy Fastenal's success is defined by our people. Our cultural values – Ambition , Integrity , Innovation, and Teamwork – are woven into the fabric of our human resources processes and protocols, and inform our employment and compensation philosophies. Several principles underpin our employment philosophy. One is decentralization: placing employees close to our customers' operations and trusting these employees to independently make local decisions to provide differentiated local service. A second is that we are a passionately promote-from-within company, guided by a belief that if you work hard, make great decisions, learn from mistakes, and exemplify our cultural values, you should receive greater opportunity and responsibility. We believe these principles cultivate an entrepreneurial mindset and foster an environment of trust and empowerment. As it relates to our compensation philosophy, we believe our combination and mix of base and bonus pay motivates our people to high levels of individual and company success, as the goals and objectives have been repeatedly demonstrated to be achievable with superior effort. We are guided by simple principles. (1) Programs should be easy to understand, with goals and objectives that are clearly communicated and resources for success that are provided. They should be calculable by the employee and numbers-driven (e.g., not subjective). (2) Total compensation should have a significant component that is based on how well the employee has grown their piece of the business and served our customers. (3) Employees should receive incentives as soon as practical upon attainment of the goal. Approximately 71% of our employees interface directly with customers on a daily or frequent basis, with the remainder supporting the selling efforts of our customer-facing employees. Typical pay arrangements provide a base amount paid periodically during the month, along with a major opportunity to earn bonus amounts, paid monthly, based on growth in sales, gross or pre-tax profit achieved, and prudent management of working capital. In certain roles, there may also be a portion of compensation based on contribution to attaining predetermined departmental or project and cost containment goals, most focused on either customer service or better execution of company-wide activities. Because we believe the growth in the company's stock value should be the reward for achieving long-term success consistent with being an owner, we have a stock option plan. In the case of certain foreign employees, we have a stock appreciation rights plan. All of our employees are eligible to receive stock option grants or stock appreciation rights. We believe our combination of short and long-term rewards and incentives has proven successful as reflected in our historic performance and acceptable levels of employee retention and turnover. 13 Table of Contents Our employees are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements and we have experienced no work stoppages. We believe our employee relations are good. Talent Acquisition and Development Fastenal's values are integral to our employment process and serve as guideposts for leadership. The ultimate goal is straightforward: find great people, ask them to join, and give them a reason to stay. Reasons to stay include training, opportunity, and a welcoming environment. From a practical standpoint, this means that we attract a broad group of candidates and then hire the candidate who is the best match for the position based on their skills and abilities. In accordance with our decentralized leadership structure, we believe the person best suited to make this decision is the local leader trying to fill the opening. In light of our promote-from-within philosophy, we know we are hiring a potential future leader with every new hire. Our Human Resources department develops efficient processes to expand our reach and pool of diverse talent while balancing the needs and requirements of data collection and storage. We have created a standardized framework for posting jobs and interviewing for positions, supplemented with training through the Fastenal School of Business. We have a Diversity and Compliance team that is heavily involved in developing this standardized framework, which ensures its integrity. Not only is this process followed for all new hires, we replicate the same procedures for any internal transfers and promotions. The Fastenal School of Business (our internal corporate university program, known as FSB) develops and delivers a comprehensive array of industry and company-specific training and development programs that are offered to our employees. The programs are offered through a combination of classroom instructor-led training, virtual instructor-led training, and online learning. FSB provides core curricula focused on key competencies determined to be critical to the success of our employees' performance. In addition, we provide specialized educational tracks within various institutes of learning. These institutes of learning are advanced levels that provide specific concentrations of education and development and have been designed to focus on critical aspects of our business, such as leadership, effective branch best practices, sales and marketing, products, supply chain, and distribution. Product Sourcing Endeavors Sourcing from suppliers with good standing is the foundation of an ethical supply chain. We expect our suppliers to comply with all regulations and standards, and we conduct risk analysis for suppliers who want to do business with us to obtain additional supporting documentation affirming their ethics, quality, and reliability, so we can be certain they meet our standards in these areas, and to ensure that they are complying with Fastenal's Supplier Terms & Code of Conduct, and Global Supplier Purchase Order Terms & Conditions, as we are subject to the conflict minerals rules. With the help of third-party resources and global databases scanning over 100 lists of agencies, known risk, adverse media, and financial status, Fastenal monitors key areas of trade-related risk, including dual-use goods and utilization of sanctioned countries (or entities), as these are common ways that international trade might provide capital and restricted goods to sanctioned parties, launder funds of drug traffickers, and otherwise support criminals. We also evaluate our suppliers' approach to labor to ensure that they are using appropriate, and appropriately compensated, employees. With a local and global supplier base, continuous monitoring and local representation is a necessity to ensure protocols are triggered when risk may be evident, ensuring a safeguard against poor and/or impaired quality and regulatory violations that may otherwise impact our reputation in the marketplace. This is performed not only at the time of supplier vetting and onboarding, but for the life of the relationship with the supplier. This process promotes a supply chain that is supportive of Fastenal's Supplier Terms & Code of Conduct and Global Supplier Purchase Order Terms & Conditions. In the event of non-compliance or potential risk, we work with the supplier to correct the situation. If remediation efforts are not undertaken to ensure the supplier remains in compliance with Fastenal's standards and code of conduct, alternative sources for supply may be considered to ensure the integrity of our supply chain. Supply chain compliance representatives are placed in international corporate offices to ensure global coverage and governance, ensuring that no matter where a customers' operations may take them, Fastenal has the infrastructure, resources, and internal processes established to perform its supply chain governance obligations. In 2021, approximately 33% of our total company-wide inventory spend was with small and/or diverse businesses. This flows from our Supplier Diversity program, as part of which we are committed to building supply chain relationships with small businesses and businesses with diverse ownership including women, minorities, veterans, and lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) owned Certified LGBT Business Enterprise ® Suppliers. 14 Table of Contents Available Information Our Internet address for corporate and investor information is www.fastenal.com. The information contained on our website or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act are available free of charge on or through our website at www.fastenal.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Our operating results depend upon many factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The material risks and uncertainties known to us which may cause our operating results to vary from anticipated results or which may negatively affect our operating results and profitability are as follows: Company Specific Risks Operational Risks Products that we sell may expose us to potential material liability for property damage, environmental damage, personal injury, or death linked to the use of those products by our customers. Some of our customers operate in challenging industries where there is a material risk of catastrophic events. We are actively seeking to expand our sales to certain categories of customers, some of whose businesses may entail heightened levels of such risk. If any of these events are linked to the use by our customers of any of our products, claims could be brought against us by those customers, by governmental authorities, and by third parties who are injured or damaged as a result of such events. In addition, our reputation could be adversely affected by negative publicity surrounding such events regardless of whether or not claims against us are successful. While we maintain insurance coverage to mitigate a portion of this risk and may have recourse against our suppliers for losses arising out of defects in products procured from them, we could experience significant losses as a result of claims made against us to the extent adequate insurance is not in place, the products are manufactured by us or legal recourse against our suppliers is otherwise not available, or our insurers or suppliers are unwilling or unable to satisfy their obligations to us. Our ability to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel to staff our selling locations could impact labor costs, sales at existing selling locations, and the successful execution of our growth drivers. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including inside and outside branch associates, Onsite managers, national account sales representatives, and support personnel, who understand and appreciate our culture and are able to adequately represent this culture to our customers. Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas, and the turnover rate in the industry is high, particularly for less tenured employees. If we are unable to hire and retain personnel capable of consistently providing a high level of customer service, as demonstrated by their enthusiasm for our culture and product knowledge, our sales could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. An inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future may also delay the planned expansion of our various selling channels. Cyber security incidents, or violations of data privacy laws and regulations, could cause us to experience certain operational interruptions, incur substantial additional costs, become subject to legal or regulatory proceedings, or suffer damage to our reputation in the marketplace. The nature of our business requires us to receive, retain, and transmit certain personally identifying information that our customers provide to purchase products or services, register on our websites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. While we have taken and continue to undertake significant steps to protect our customer and confidential information, a compromise of our data security systems or those of businesses we interact with could result in information related to our customers or business being obtained by unauthorized persons. We develop and update processes and maintain systems in an effort to try to prevent such unauthorized access, and have established and maintained disclosure controls and procedures that would permit us to make accurate and timely disclosures of any material event, including any cyber security event. The development and maintenance of these processes and systems are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Consequently, despite our efforts, the possibility of cyber sec urity incidents cannot be eliminated entirely. There can be no assurance that we will not experience a cyber security incident that may materially impact our consolidated financial statements. While we also seek to obtain assurances that third parties we interact with will protect confidential information, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held or accessed by third parties may be compromised. If a compromise of our data security were to occur, it could interrupt our operations, subject us to additional legal, regulatory, and operating costs, and damage our reputation in the marketplace. In addition, regulatory authorities have increased their focus on how companies collect, process, use, store, share, and transmit personal data. New privacy security laws and regulations, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation 2016, the California Consumer Protection Act, and other similar state privacy laws, pose increasingly complex compliance challenges, which may increase compliance costs, and any failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations could result in significant penalties. Interruptions in the proper functioning of information systems or the inability to maintain or upgrade our information systems, or convert to alternate systems in a timely and efficient manner, could disrupt operations, cause unanticipated increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues, and result in less efficient operations. The proper functioning of our information systems is critical to many aspects of our business and we could be adversely affected if we experience a disruption or data loss relating to our information systems and are unable to recover in a timely manner. Our information systems are protected with robust backup systems and processes, including physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities. Still, information systems are vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, unauthorized access, 16 Table of Contents telecommunication failures, and other problems. In addition, certain software used by us is licensed from, and certain services related to our information systems are provided by, third parties who could choose to discontinue their products or services or their relationship with us. It is also possible that we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain, and expand our information systems. Our ability to process orders, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable, pay expenses, and maintain the security of company and customer data, as well as the success of our growth drivers, is dependent in varying degrees on the effective and timely operation and support of our information technology systems. If critical information systems fail or these systems or related software or services are otherwise unavailable, or if we experience extended delays or unexpected expenses in securing, developing, and otherwise implementing technology solutions to support our growth and operations, it could adversely affect our profitability and/or ability to grow. The ability to adequately protect our intellectual property or successfully defend against infringement claims by others may have an adverse impact on operations. Our business relies on the use, validity and continued protection of certain proprietary information and intellectual property, which includes current and future patents, trade secrets, trademarks, service marks, copyrights, and confidentiality agreements as well as license and sublicense agreements to use intellectual property owned by affiliated entities or third parties. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by others could result in harm to various aspects of the business and may result in costly and protracted litigation in order to protect our rights. In addition, we may be subject to claims that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, which could subject us to liability, require us to obtain licenses to use those rights at significant cost or otherwise cause us to modify our operations. Changes in customer or product mix, downward pressure on sales prices, and changes in volume or timing of orders have caused and could cause our gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline in the future. Changes in our customer or product mix have caused our gross profit percentage to decline and could cause our gross profit percentage to further fluctuate or decline. For example, the portion of our sales attributable to fasteners has been decreasing for approximately twenty-five years. That has adversely affected our gross profit percentage as our non-fastener products generally carry lower gross profit margins than our fastener products. Similarly, in recent years, revenues from national accounts and/or Onsite customers, which typically have lower gross profit margins by virtue of their scale, available business, and broader offering of products which typically have lower gross margins, have tended to grow faster than revenues from smaller customers. However, whether and to what extent this adverse mix impact will result in a decline of our gross profit percentage in any given year will depend on the extent to which they are, or are not, offset by positive impacts to gross profit margin during such year. For instance, in 2020, our gross profit margin declined significantly as the pandemic generated significant sales of certain products, such as PPE and sanitizer, that have traditionally lower gross profit margins. Conversely, as business conditions normalized in 2021, sales of these products declined versus the prior year, which more than offset our traditional mix-related margin pressure and resulted in improvement of our gross profit margin. Setting aside these or other unusual circumstances, however, customer and product mix have contributed to the decline in our gross profit percentage over time and will likely continue to affect our gross profit percentag e into the foreseeable future. Other variables that could cause our gross margin to decline include d ownward pressure on sales prices, changes in the volume or timing of our orders, and/or an inability to pass higher product costs on to customers. We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of deflation, pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition. Reductions in our volume of purchases can adversely impact gross profit by reducing supplier volume allowances. We may not be able to pass rising product costs to customers if those customers have ready product or supplier alternatives in the marketplace. Our operating and administrative expenses could grow more rapidly than net sales which could result in failure to achieve our goals related to leveraging revenue growth into higher net earnings. Over time, we have generally experienced an increase in our operating and administrative expenses, including costs related to payroll, occupancy, freight, and information technology, among others, as our net sales have grown. However, historically, a portion of these expenses has not increased at the same rates as net sales, allowing us to leverage our growth and sustain or expand our operating profit margins. There are various scenarios where we may not be able to continue to achieve this leverage as we have been able to do in the past. For instance, it is typical that when demand declines, most commonly from cyclical or general market factors (though it could be due to customer losses or some other company-specific event), our operating and administrative expenses do not fall as quickly as net sales. It is also possible that in the future we will elect to make investments in operating and administrative expenses that would result in costs growing faster than net sales. In addition, market variables, such as labor rates, energy costs, and legal costs, could move in such a way as to cause us to not be able to manage our operating and administrative expenses in a way that would enable us to leverage our revenue growth into higher net earnings. Should any of these scenarios, or a combination of them, occur in the future, it is possible that our operating and pre-tax profit margins could decline even if we are able to grow revenue. Failure to implement an effective Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) strategy could result in financial losses or a tarnished corporate reputation. Customers, suppliers, employees, community partners, shareholders, and regulatory agencies are increasingly requesting disclosure and action relating to ESG performance and objectives. For instance, over the last five years we have included shareholder proposals in our proxy statement seeking specific actions around social and governance policy and reporting. We have also seen an increase in customer requests for information pertaining to diversity and environmental policy, including that our scores with various third-party ESG rating organizations achieve a certain threshold. 17 Table of Contents An inability to satisfactorily address the concerns of our stakeholders could adversely affect our corporate reputation, image, identity, brand equity, and status, which in turn could hurt our ability to retain and acquire customers and employees or negatively impact the price performance of our common stock. Increasing reporting and operational regulations around ESG matters may result in higher operating expenses and/or capital expenditures that could reduce our profitability and/or cash flow. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls over business processes and/or financial reporting could materially impact our business and results. Company management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives relating to operations, reporting, and compliance. Any internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all internal control systems, internal control over business processes and financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over business processes and financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to litigation, economic loss or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may be unable to meet our goals regarding the growth drivers of our business. Our sales growth is dependent primarily on our ability to attract new customers and increase our activity with existing customers within North America and abroad. In recent years, we have increased the resources devoted to our growth drivers, including FMI, Onsites, national accounts, digital solutions, and our interna tional operations. While we have taken steps to build momentum in the growth drivers of our business, we cannot assure you those steps will lead to sales growth. Failure to achieve any of our goals regarding FMI, Onsites, national accounts, digital solutions, and international operations, or other growth drivers could negatively impact our long-term sales growth. In fact, the COVID-19 pandemic has made gaining access to customers more challenging due to both alternative work arrangements to manage risk of infection in workplaces and due to shifts in priorities to short-term crisis management and away from long-term strategic planning. This has resulted in our signings of Onsites and FMI installations, both important indicators of future sales growth, to be below target levels in 2020 and 2021. Further, failure to identify appropriate targets for our Onsite channel and FMI tools or failure to persuade the appropriate targets to adopt these offerings once identified may adversely impact our goals regarding the number of new Onsite locations we are able to open or the number of FMI installations we are able to deploy. Our competitive advantage in FMI Solutions, which includes industrial vending (FASTVend) and bin stock (FASTStock and FASTBin) tools could be eliminated and, in the case of FASTVend, the loss of key suppliers of equipment and services could be impactful and result in failure to deploy devices. We believe we have a competitive advantage in industrial vending and bin stock due to our hardware and software, our local branch presence (allowing us to service devices and bins more rapidly and with less burden on our customers), our depth of products that lend themselves to being dispensed through industrial vending devices or bin stocks, and, in North America, our distribution strength. These advantages have developed over time; however, other competitors could respond to our expanding industrial vending and bin stock position with highly competitive platforms of their own. Such competition could negatively impact our ability to expand our industrial vending and bin stock tools or negatively impact the economics of that business. In addition, we currently rely on a limited number of suppliers for the vending devices used in our FASTVend platform. While these devices, software, and services can be obtained from other sources, loss of our current suppliers could be disruptive and could result in us failing to meet our goals related to the number of devices we are able to deploy in the next twelve to eighteen months. In addition, as we experienced in 2020 and 2021, our ability to deploy our FMI solutions at targeted levels could be limited by events similar to the COVID-19 pandemic if customers shift their energy to addressing short-term disruptions instead of long-term strategic planning. The ability to identify new products and product lines, and integrate them into our selling locations and distribution network, may impact our ability to compete, our ability to generate additional sales, and our profit margins. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop product expertise at the selling location level and identify future products and product lines that complement existing products and product lines and that respond to our customers' needs. We may not be able to compete effectively unless our product selection keeps up with trends in the markets in which we compete or trends in new products. In addition, our ability to integrate new products and product lines into our branches and distribution network could impact sales and profit margins. We may not be able to compete effectively against traditional or non-traditional competitors, which could cause us to lose market share or erode our gross and/or operating income profit and/or percentage. The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry, although slowly consolidating, still remains a large, fragmented, and highly competitive industry. Our current or future competitors may include companies with similar or greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing, technological, and other resources, and we believe they will continue to challenge us with their product selection, financial resources, technological advancements, and services. Increased competition from brick-and-mortar retailers could cause us to lose market share, reduce our prices, or increase our spending. Similarly, the emergence of on-line retailers, whether as extensions of our traditional competition or in the form of major, non-traditional competitors, could result in easier 18 Table of Contents and quicker price discovery and the adoption of aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods. These pressures could have the effect of eroding our gross and/or operating income profit and/or percentage over time. Our inability to attract or transition key executive officers may divert the attention of other members of our senior leadership and adversely impact our existing operations. Our success depends on the efforts and abilities of our key executive officers and senior leadership. In the event of voluntary or involuntary vacancies in our executive team in the future, the extent to which there is disruption in the oversight and/or leadership of our business will depend on our ability to either transition internal, talented individuals or recruit suitable replacements to serve in these roles. In addition, difficulties in smoothly implementing any transition to new members of our executive team, or recruiting suitable replacements, could divert the attention of other members of our senior leadership team from our existing operations. We may not be successful in integrating acquisitions and achieving intended benefits and synergies. We have completed several acquisitions of businesses in recent years. We expect to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions that we believe will either expand or complement our business in new or existing markets or further enhance the value and offerings we are able to provide to our existing or future potential customers. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and challenges, including, among others, a risk of potential loss of key employees of an acquired business, inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition, diversion of our capital and our management's attention from other business issues, and risks related to the integration of the acquired business including unanticipated changes in our business, our industry, or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition. Any one or more of these factors could cause us to not realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisitions. Equity Risks There can be no assurance that our stock price will continue to reflect the current multiple of earnings over time. Stock prices, including ours, are commonly thought to be a function of earnings compounded by a multiple. This is often referred to as a price-to-earnings (or P/E) ratio. Historically, investors have given our earnings a higher multiple, or premium, than is typical of the broader industrial sector of which we are typically associated. We believe we have earned this premium by virtue of a long history of superior growth, profitability, and returns. However, to the extent that we fail to successfully execute our growth strategies and/or poorly navigate the risks that surround our business, including those described throughout this section, or to the extent our industry (industrial distribution, or industrial stocks in general) loses favor in the marketplace, there can be no assurance that investors will continue to afford a premium multiple to our earnings which could adversely affect our stock price. We cannot provide any guaranty of future dividend payments or that we will continue to purchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our share purchase program. Although our board of directors has historically authorized the payment of quarterly cash dividends on our common stock and indicated an intention to do so in the future, there are no assurances that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or continue to increase dividends at historic rates. In addition, although our board of directors has authorized share purchase programs and we purchased shares in 2020, 2018, and prior years through these programs, we may discontinue doing so at any time. Any decision to continue to pay quarterly dividends on our common stock, to increase those dividends, or to purchase our common stock in the future will be based upon our financial condition and results of operations, the price of our common stock, credit conditions, and such other factors as are deemed relevant by our board of directors. General Economic and Operating Risks Operational Risks A downturn in the economy or in the principal markets served by us and other factors may affect customer spending, which could harm our operating results. In general, our sales represent spending on discretionary items or consumption needs by our customers. This spending is affected by many factors, including, among others: • general business conditions, • business conditions in our principal markets, • interest rates, • inflation, • liquidity in credit markets, • taxation, • government regulations and actions, • energy and fuel prices and electrical power rates, • unemployment trends, • terrorist attacks and acts of war, • impact of higher sustained global temperatures (global warming) • acts of God, which may include, but are not limited to, weather events, earthquakes, pandemics, etc., and • other matters that influence customer confidence and spending. 19 Table of Contents A downturn in either the national or local economy where we operate, or in the principal markets served by us, or changes in any of the other factors described above, could negatively impact sales at our in-market locations, sales through our other selling channels, and the level of profitability of those in-market locations and other selling channels. This risk was demonstrated in 2021. As economic confidence and general business conditions recovered from the COVID-related downturn in 2020, spending for industrial supplies to companies engaged in construction and the manufacture of components, capital goods, and heavy equipment expanded sharply. This produced a resumption of growth in key cyclical product lines, such as fasteners, that had declined the preceding year (only partly offset by reduced sales of COVID -related supplies to government, healthcare, and warehousing customers). At the same time, we believe our growth was restrained by other economic factors. These include: (1) difficulty adding labor resources, potentially due to low unemployment, concerns about the pandemic, and government stimulus support; (2) supply chain disruption due to constraints for certain raw material and component availability, production capacity, shipping capacity, and labor availability; and (3) the impact of inflation for raw materials, manufactured components, transportation services, and labor. These trends were evident throughout 2021. Products manufactured in foreign countries may cease to be available, which could adversely affect our inventory levels and opera ting results. We obtain certain of our products, and our suppliers obtain certain of their products, from China, Taiwan, South Korea, and other foreign countries. Our suppliers could discontinue selling products manufactured in foreign countries at any time for reasons that may or may not be in our control or our suppliers' control, including foreign government regulations, domestic government regulations, disruption in trade relationships and agreements, political unrest, war, disease, or changes in local economic conditions. Additionally, the shipment of goods from foreign countries could be delayed by container shipping companies encountering financial, capacity, or other difficulties. We experienced this in 2021 as a lack of shipping and labor capacity, caused primarily by the strong recovery in global product demand but exacerbated by continued pandemic-related workforce disruption, constrained our ability to efficiently import supplies and increased shipping costs significantly. Our operating results and inventory levels could suffer if we are unable to promptly replace a supplier or shipper who is unwilling or unable to satisfy our requirements with another supplier or shipper providing products and services of comparable quality and utility. Trade policies could make sourcing product from overseas more difficult and/or more costly, and could adversely impact our gross and/or operating profit percentage. We source a significant amount of the products we sell from outside of North America, primarily Asia. We have made significant structural investments over time to be able to source both directly from Asia through our wholly-owned, Asia-based subsidiary, FASTCO Trading Co., Ltd. and indirectly from suppliers that procure product from international sources. This was initially necessary due to the absence of significant domestic fastener production, but over time we have expanded our non-fastener sourcing as well, and at this time it may be difficult to adjust our sourcing in the short term. In light of this, changes in trade policies could affect our sourcing operations, our ability to secure sufficient product to serve our customers and/or impact the cost or price of our products, with potentially adverse impacts on our gross and operating profit percentages and financial results. China represents a significant source of product for North America. In addition, we move and source products within North America. Any trading disruption (tariffs, product restrictions, etc.) between Canada, the United States, and Mexico, or disruption in their respective trading relationships with other nations can adversely impact our business. There can be no assurances that these disruptions will not continue or increase in the future, with the previously mentioned countries or additional countries with which we do business. The degree to which these changes in the global marketplace affect our financial results will be influenced by the specific details of the changes in trade policies, their timing and duration, and our effectiveness in deploying tools to address these issues. Changes in energy costs and the cost of raw materials used in our products could impact our net sales, cost of sales, gross profit percentage, distribution expenses, and occupancy expenses, which may result in lower operating income. Costs of raw materials used in our products (e.g., steel, plastic) and energy costs can fluctuate significantly over time. Increases in these costs result in increased production costs for our suppliers. These suppliers typically look to pass their increased costs along to us through price increases. The fuel costs of our distribution and branch operations have fluctuated as well. This was a meaningful issue in 2021, when costs for metals, particularly steel, fuels, and overseas shipping services increased sharply to reflect strong demand, and labor constraints. While we typically try to pass higher supplier prices and fuel costs through to our customers or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact, including in 2021, we may not be successful, particularly if supplier prices or fuel costs rise rapidly. Failure to fully pass any such increased prices and costs through to our customers or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact would have an adverse effect on our operating income. While increases in the cost of fuel or raw materials could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit to decline, or by negatively impacting customers in certain industries, which could cause our sales to those customers to decline. Our current estimates of total market potential as well as the market potential of our business strategies could be incorrect. We believe we have a significant opportunity for growth based on our belief that North American market demand for the products we sell is estimated to exceed $140 billion. This figure is not derived from an independent organization or data source that aggregates and publishes widely agreed-upon demand and market share statistics. Instead, we have identified this figure based on our own experience in the marketplace for our products and by evaluating estimates from other sources. If we have 20 Table of Contents overestimated the size of our market, and in doing so, underestimated our current share of it, the size of our opportunity for growth may not be as significant as we currently believe. Similarly, we have provided estimates of the opportunities we have with some of our specific growth strategies, such as FMI solutions and Onsite locations. Within North America, we believe the potential market opportunity for industrial vending is approxi mately 1.7 million devices and we have identified over 15,000 customer locations with the potential to implement our Onsite service model within our traditional manufacturing and construction customer base. We have identified additional markets, such as government, healthcare, and academia, and geographies into which we can sell our FMI solutions, which would increase the number of identified potential FMI solutions or customer locations. However, our presence in emerging markets and geographies is not as established as is the case in our traditional markets and geographies, which could extend the sales cycle. Similar to the case for total market size, we use our own experience and data to arrive at the size of these potential opportunities and not independent sources. These estimates are based on our business model today, and the introduction or expansion of other business strategies, such as on-line retailing, could cause them to change. In addition, the market potential of a particular business strategy may vary from expectations due to a change in the marketplace (such as changes in customer concentration or needs), a change in the nature of that business strategy, or weaker than anticipated acceptance by customers of that business strategy. We cannot guarantee that our market potential estimates are accurate or that we will ultimately decide to expand our industrial vending or Onsite service models as we anticipate to reach the full market opportunity. The ongoing occurrence of the COVID-19 pandemic, or any other such widespread public health crisis, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020 impacted our business due to government authorities and customers imposing facility closures, work-from-home orders, social distancing protocols, and/or other restrictions. These actions had both positive (strong sales of safety and sanitation supplies to government, healthcare and warehousing customers) and negative (weak sales to industrial and construction customers as well as disruption in signings of Onsites and FMI devices) effects. In 2021, though the pandemic continued to impact United States and world populations in the form of high infection and hospitalization rates, including from new variants of COVID-19, this effect on our business and financial condition was secondary to the re-opening and recovery of the global economy. Even so, the continued public health concerns resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic continue to create significant uncertainty, economic disruption, and volatility, all of which have impacted and may continue to impact our business. We may be required to take significant actions to mitigate future outbreaks, including, but not limited to, facility closures and work-from-home policies, and/or customer activity may be affected by their own mitigation actions. This could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. However, as we cannot predict the severity and duration of the pandemic, including additional outbreaks, new variants of the virus, and the future availability of effective medical treatments and vaccines, the net financial impact to our operating results cannot be reasonably estimated. Inclement weather and other disruptions to the transportation network could adversely impact our distribution system and demand for our products. Our ability to provide efficient distribution of core business products to our branch network is an integral component of our overall business strategy. Disruptions at distribution centers or shipping ports may affect our ability to both maintain core products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, severe weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our products in particularly hard hit regions. The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry is consolidating, which could cause it to become more competitive and could negatively impact our market share, gross profit, and operating income. The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry in North America is consolidating. This consolidation is being driven by customer needs and supplier capabilities, which could cause the industry to become more competitive as greater economies of scale are achieved by suppliers, or as competitors with new business models are willing and able to operate with lower gross profit on select products. Customers are increasingly aware of the total costs of fulfillment and of the need to have consistent sources of supply at multiple locations. We believe these customer needs could result in fewer suppliers as the remaining suppliers become larger and capable of being a consistent source of supply. There can be no assurance we will be able in the future to take effective advantage of the trend toward consolidation. The trend in our industry toward consolidation could make it more difficult for us to maintain our current gross profit and operating income. Furthermore, as our industrial customers face increased foreign competition, and potentially lose business to foreign competitors or shift their operations overseas in an effort to reduce expenses, we may face increased difficulty in growing and maintaining our market share. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk, and changes in foreign exchange rates could increase the cost of purchasing products and impact our foreign sales. Given that we were founded and remain based in the United States and that we are publicly-traded in the United States, we report our results based on the United States dollar. Because the functional currency related to most of our non-United States operations is the applicable local currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business. Fluctuations in the relative strength of foreign economies and their related currencies could adversely impact our ability to procure products at competitive prices and our foreign sales. Historically, our primary exchange rate exposure has been with the Canadian dollar. There can be no 21 Table of Contents assurance that currency exchange rate fluctuations with the Canadian dollar and other foreign currencies will not adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. While the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, we are not currently using these instruments and we have not historically hedged this exposure. If we decide to do so in the future, we could potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Legal, Regulatory, and Compliance Risks Our business is subject to a wide array of operating laws and regulations in every jurisdiction where we operate. Compliance with these laws and regulations increases the cost of doing business and failure to comply could result in the imposition of fines or penalties and the termination of contracts. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations including without limitation; import and export requirements, anti-bribery and corruption laws, product compliance laws, environmental laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, advertising regulations, data privacy (including in the U.S., the California Consumer Privacy Act, and in the European Union, the General Data Protection Regulation 2016, with interpretations varying from state to state and country to country) and cyber security requirements (including protection of information and incident responses), regulations on suppliers regarding the sources of supplies or products, labor and employment laws, and anti-competition regulations. In addition, as a supplier to federal, state, and local government agencies, we must comply with certain laws and regulations relating specifically to the formation, administration, and performance of our governmental contracts. We are also subject to governmental audits and inquiries in the normal course of business. Ongoing audit activity and changes to the legal and regulatory environments could increase the cost of doing business, and such costs may increase in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation. While we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations, or our policies. Any such violations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, damage to our reputation, and, in the case of laws and regulations relating specifically to governmental contracts, the loss of those contracts. Tax laws and regulations require compliance efforts that can increase our cost of doing business and changes to these laws and regulations could impact financial results. We are subject to a variety of tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Maintaining compliance with these laws can increase our cost of doing business and failure to comply could result in audits or the imposition of fines or penalties. Further, our future effective tax rates in any of these jurisdictions could be affected, positively or negatively, by changing tax priorities, changes in statutory rates, and/or changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof. The most significant recent example of this is the comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Tax Act), which was enacted in the United States in December 2017. However, in September 2021, the Ways and Means Committee of the United States House of Representatives published tax proposals that, if ultimately enacted as proposed, could result in higher tax payments as a result of higher corporate tax rates and higher taxes on earnings from foreign jurisdictions. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgements by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as asset impairment, inventories, lease obligations, self-insurance, vendor allowances, tax matters, business combinations, and legal matters, are complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. Changes in accounting standards or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments, could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. The implementation of new accounting standards could also require certain systems, internal process, internal control, and other changes that could increase our operating costs. Credit and Liquidity Risks Tight credit markets could impact our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms or increase the cost of existing or future financing and interest rate fluctuations could adversely impact our results. As of December 31, 2021, we had $390.0 of outstanding debt obligations, of which $365.0 is senior unsecured promissory notes issued under our master note agreement (the Master Note Agreement), while $25.0 is loans outstanding under our revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). Loans under the Credit Facility bear interest at a rate per annum based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and mature on November 30, 2023 . The notes issued under our Master Note Agreement consist o f seven ser ies and are described in further detail in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included later in this Form 10-K. During periods of volatility and disruption in the United States credit markets, financing may become more costly and more difficult to obtain. This was a factor most recently in 2020. The turmoil that came with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic did not have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or borrowing costs given our low level of indebtedness at that time. However, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt increased. We currently have the capacity under our Credit Facility and Master Note Agreement to increase borrowings in the future. If credit market volatility were to return, the cost of servicing any existing balances on our Credit Facility at that time could increase due to the LIBOR-based interest rate provided for under our Credit Facility. On March 5, 2021, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that 22 Table of Contents immediately after December 31, 2021, publication of certain LIBOR settings would permanently cease, with most other LIBOR settings, including 1 month, 3 month, and 6 month LIBOR settings ceasing on June 30, 2023. Our Credit Facility currently uses LIBOR as a reference rate, and, while there are customary LIBOR replacement provisions in our Credit Facility, the transition to alternatives to LIBOR could be modestly disruptive to the credit markets. We are currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on our consolidated financial statements. In addition, borrowing additional amounts to finance stock purchases, dividends, capital expenditures, and other liquidity needs or to refinance our existing indebtedness could be difficult and the cost of doing so could be high.