This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Exchange Act and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Also, documents that we “incorporate by reference” into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including documents that we subsequently file with the SEC will contain forward-looking statements. When we refer to forward-looking statements or information, sometimes we use words such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “plans,” “intends,” “expects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “anticipates” and “continues.” In particular, the below risk factors describe forward-looking information. The risk factors describe risks that may affect these statements but are not all-inclusive, particularly with respect to possible future events. Many things can happen that can cause actual results to be different from those we describe. These factors include, but are not limited to the following: Risk Factors Related to our Real Estate Investments and Operations Revenue from our properties may be reduced or limited if the retail operations of our tenants are not successful. Revenue from our properties depends primarily on the ability of our tenants to pay the full amount of rent and other charges due under their leases on a timely basis. Some of our leases provide for the payment, in addition to base rent, of additional rent above the base amount according to a specified percentage of the gross sales generated by the tenants and generally provide for reimbursement of real estate taxes and expenses of operating the property. Economic, legal, and/or competitive conditions may impact the success of our tenants’ retail operations and therefore the amount of rent and expense reimbursements we receive from our tenants. Any reduction in our tenants' abilities to pay base rent, percentage rent, or other charges on a timely basis, including the closing of stores prior to the end of the lease term or the filing by any of our tenants for bankruptcy protection, will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the event of default by a tenant, we may experience delays and unexpected costs in enforcing our rights as landlord under lease terms, which may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our net income depends on the success and continued presence of our “anchor” tenants. Our net income could be adversely affected in the event of a downturn in the business, or the bankruptcy or insolvency, of any anchor store or anchor tenant. Anchor tenants generally occupy large amounts of square footage, pay a significant portion of the total rents at a property and contribute to the success of other tenants by drawing significant numbers of customers to a property. The closing of one or more anchor stores at a property could adversely affect that property and result in lease terminations by, or reductions in rent from, other tenants whose leases may permit termination or rent reduction in those circumstances or whose own operations may suffer as a result. We continue to see higher levels of anchor turnover and closings in some markets, which has caused an oversupply of larger retail spaces. Therefore, tenant demand for certain of our anchor spaces may decrease and as a result, we may see an increase in vacancy and/or a decrease in rents for those spaces that could have a negative impact to our net income. As of December 31, 2019 , our anchor tenant space is 97.5% leased and 95.9% occupied. A shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to online shopping may have an adverse impact on our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. Many retailers operating brick and mortar stores have made online sales a vital piece of their business. The shift to online shopping may cause declines in brick and mortar sales generated by certain of our tenants and may cause certain of our tenants to reduce the size or number of their retail locations in the future. This risk is partially mitigated by our strategy of maintaining a diverse portfolio of retail properties. The trend of retailers utilizing brick and mortar locations for ‘showroom’ and on-line sales distribution purposes (particularly at shopping centers in densely populated areas like ours) may further mitigate this risk. However, there can be no assurance that our shopping centers will not be further impacted by the shift to online shopping. As a result, our cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have properties that are geographically concentrated, and adverse economic or real estate market declines in these areas could have a material adverse effect on us. As of December 31, 2019, our tenants operated in 12 states and the District of Columbia. Any adverse situation that disproportionately affects the the markets where our properties are concentrated may have a magnified adverse effect on our portfolio. Refer to “Properties” (