" and elsewhere in this report. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report may not occur as contemplated, and our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied by the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this report are made as of the date hereof, based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General lululemon athletica inc. is a designer and retailer of technical athletic apparel. Since our inception, we have developed a distinctive corporate culture with a mission to produce products which create transformational experiences for people to live happy, healthy, fun lives. We promote a set of core values in our business which include, developing the highest quality products, operating with integrity, leading a balanced and fun life, and nurturing entrepreneurial spirit. These core values attract passionate and motivated employees who are driven to succeed and share our purpose of "elevating the world from mediocrity to greatness." In this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("10-K" or "Report") for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2015 ("fiscal 2014"), lululemon athletica inc. (together with its subsidiaries) is referred to as "lululemon, "the Company," "we," "us" or "our." Our Products Our healthy lifestyle inspired athletic apparel is marketed under the lululemon athletica and ivivva athletica brand names. We offer a comprehensive line of apparel and accessories for women, men and female youth. Our apparel assortment includes items such as pants, shorts, tops and jackets designed for healthy lifestyle activities and athletic pursuits such as yoga, running, general fitness, and dance-inspired apparel for female youth. Although we benefit from the growing number of people that participate in yoga, we believe the percentage of our products sold for other activities will continue to increase as we broaden our product range to address other activities. Our fitness-related accessories include an array of items such as bags, socks, underwear, yoga mats and water bottles. Our design team continues to source and develop technically advanced fabrics and innovative functional features that we believe will help advance our product line and differentiate us from the competition. Our Market Our primary target customer is a sophisticated and educated woman who understands the importance of an active, healthy lifestyle. She is increasingly tasked with the dual responsibilities of career and family and is constantly challenged to balance her work, life and health. We believe she pursues exercise to achieve physical fitness and inner peace. As women have continued to embrace a variety of fitness and athletic activities, including yoga, we believe we have been able to effectively address their unique fit and performance needs by incorporating style along with comfort and functionality into our products through our vertical retail strategy. Although we were founded to address the unique needs of women, we are also successfully designing products for men and athletic female youth who also appreciate the technical rigor and premium quality of our products. We also believe longer-term growth in athletic participation will be reinforced as the aging Baby Boomer generation focuses more on longevity. In 1 Table of Contents addition, we believe consumer purchase decisions are driven by both an actual need for functional products and a desire to create a particular lifestyle perception. As such, we believe the credibility and authenticity of our brand expands our potential market beyond just athletes to those who desire to lead an active, healthy, and balanced life. Our Segments We primarily conduct our business through two channels: corporate-owned stores, and direct to consumer. We also generate net revenue from our corporate-owned outlets and showrooms, through sales to wholesale accounts, from warehouse sales, and from sales from temporary locations. The net revenue we generate from these sources is combined in our other segment. As of February 1, 2015 , we operated 302 corporate-owned stores located in the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and Singapore. We believe our vertical retail strategy allows us to interact more directly with, and gain feedback from, our customers, whom we call guests, while providing us with greater control of our brand. Our direct to consumer segment includes the net revenue which we generate from our lululemon and ivivva e-commerce websites, www.lululemon.com and www.ivivva.com and other country and region specific websites. Our Stores As of February 1, 2015 , our retail footprint included 211 stores in the United States, 57 stores in Canada, 26 stores in Australia, five in New Zealand, two in the United Kingdom, and one in Singapore. While most of our corporate-owned stores are branded lululemon athletica, 22 of our corporate-owned stores are branded ivivva athletica and specialize in dance-inspired apparel for female youth. Our retail stores are located primarily on street locations, in lifestyle centers, and in malls. Our corporate-owned stores by brand and by country as of February 1, 2015 and February 2, 2014 , are summarized in the table below: We opened 48 net new corporate-owned stores in North America, Australia, Europe and Asia in fiscal 2014 . Over the next fiscal year, our new store growth will be primarily focused on corporate-owned stores in the United States. Over the next few years we intend to expand our presence outside of North America and Australia, as part of our long-term business strategy. We believe that partnering with companies and individuals with significant experience and proven success in certain target countries is to our advantage. On January 11, 2015, we entered into a license and supply agreement with a partner in the Middle East which grants it the right to operate lululemon athletica branded retail locations in the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman and Bahrain for an initial term of five years. We retain the rights to sell lululemon products through our e-commerce websites in these countries. Under this arrangement we will be supplying the partner with lululemon products, training and other support. As of February 1, 2015 there were no franchised retail locations in operation. 2 Table of Contents We perform ongoing evaluations of our portfolio of corporate-owned store locations. In fiscal 2014 we closed one of our corporate-owned stores. As we continue our evaluation we may in future periods close additional corporate-owned store locations. We believe that our innovative retail concept and guest experience contribute to the success of our stores. During fiscal 2014 our corporate-owned stores open at least one year, which average approximately 2,950 square feet, averaged sales of $1,678 per square foot. Direct to Consumer Direct to consumer is an increasingly substantial part of our business, representing approximately 17.9% of our net revenue in fiscal 2014 , compared to 16.5% of our net revenue in fiscal 2013 and 14.4% of our net revenue in fiscal 2012 . We believe that a direct to consumer channel is convenient for our core customer and enhances the image of our brand. Our direct to consumer channel makes our product accessible to more markets than our corporate-owned store channel alone. We believe this channel is effective in building brand awareness, especially in new markets. Other Channels Other net revenue accounted for 7.1% of total net revenue in fiscal 2014 compared to 6.2% in fiscal 2013 and 6.0% of total net revenue in fiscal 2012 . Other net revenue includes sales made through the following channels: Community-Based Marketing We utilize a community-based approach to building brand awareness and customer loyalty. We pursue a multi-faceted strategy which leverages our local ambassadors, social media, in-store community boards and a variety of grassroots initiatives. Product Design and Development Our product design efforts are led by a team of designers based in Vancouver, British Columbia partnering with international designers. Our team is comprised of dedicated athletes and users of our products who embody our design philosophy and dedication to premium quality. Our design team identifies trends based on market intelligence and research, proactively seeks the input of our guests and our ambassadors and broadly seeks inspiration consistent with our goals of style, function and technical superiority. As we strive to continue to provide our guests with technically advanced fabrics, our design team works closely with our suppliers to incorporate innovative fabrics that bring particular specifications to our products. We partner with independent inspection, verification, and testing companies, who conduct a variety of tests on our fabrics, testing performance characteristics including pilling, shrinkage, abrasion resistance and colorfastness. We collaborate with leading fabric suppliers to develop fabrics that we ultimately trademark for brand recognition whenever possible. Sourcing and Manufacturing We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide fabrics for and to produce our products. We work with a group of approximately 57 suppliers to provide the fabrics for our products. We use a wide variety of fabrics in our products, including our Luon fabric. We obtain substantially all of our Luon fabric, which represents approximately 30% of the fabric we use in our products, from two suppliers. We work with a group of approximately 30 suppliers that manufacture our products, five of which produced approximately 63% of our products in fiscal 2014 . During fiscal 2014 , no single manufacturer produced more than 30% of our product offering. During fiscal 2014 , approximately 59% 3 Table of Contents of our products were produced in South East Asia, approximately 23% in South Asia, approximately 11% in China, approximately 1% in North America and the remainder in other countries. We believe our North American manufacturers provide us with the speed to market necessary to respond quickly to changing trends and increased demand. We have developed long-standing relationships with a number of our vendors and take great care to ensure that they share our commitment to quality and ethics. We do not, however, have any long-term term contracts with any of our suppliers or manufacturing sources for the production and supply of our fabrics and garments, and we compete with other companies for fabrics, raw materials, production and import quota capacity. We require that all of our manufacturers adhere to a vendor code of ethics regarding social and environmental sustainability practices. We partner with leading inspection and verification firms to closely monitor each supplier's compliance with applicable laws and our vendor code of ethics. Distribution Facilities We operate and distribute finished products from our owned or leased distribution facilities in Vancouver, British Columbia, Sumner, Washington, Columbus, Ohio, and Melbourne, Victoria. During fiscal 2013 we purchased the distribution center in Columbus with approximately 307,000 square feet that we opened in fiscal 2014. The distribution facilities in Vancouver, Sumner and Melbourne are leased and are approximately 120,000, 167,000 and 54,000 square feet, respectively. We believe our distribution infrastructure will be sufficient to accommodate our expected store growth and expanded product offerings over the next several years. We also utilize third-party logistic providers to store and distribute finished products from their warehouse locations in Hong Kong and the Netherlands. Competition Competition in the athletic apparel industry is principally on the basis of brand image and recognition as well as product quality, innovation, style, distribution and price. We believe that we successfully compete on the basis of our premium brand image, our focus on women and our technical product innovation. In addition, we believe our vertical retail distribution strategy differentiates us from our competitors and allows us to more effectively control our brand image. The market for athletic apparel is highly competitive. It includes increasing competition from established companies that are expanding their production and marketing of performance products, as well as from frequent new entrants to the market. We are in direct competition with wholesalers and direct sellers of athletic apparel, such as Nike, Inc., adidas AG and Under Armour, Inc. We also compete with retailers specifically focused on women's athletic apparel including The Gap, Inc. (including the Athleta brand), Lucy Activewear Inc., and bebe stores, inc. (including the BEBE SPORT collection). Seasonality Our business is affected by the general seasonal trends common to the retail apparel industry. Our annual net revenue is weighted more heavily toward our fourth fiscal quarter, reflecting our historical strength in sales during the holiday season, while our operating expenses are more equally distributed throughout the year. As a result, a substantial portion of our operating profits are generated in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. For example, we generated approximately 42% , 39% and 41% of our full year operating profit during the fourth quarters of fiscal 2014 , fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012 , respectively. Our Employees As of February 1, 2015 , we had 8,628 employees, of which 4,949 were employed in the United States, 2,822 were employed in Canada, and 857 were employed outside of North America. None of our employees are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have had no labor-related work stoppages by our employees and we believe our relations with our employees are excellent. Intellectual Property We believe we own the material trademarks used in connection with the marketing, distribution and sale of all of our products in the United States, Canada and in the other countries in which our products are currently or intended to be either sold or manufactured. Our major trademarks include lululemon athletica & design, the logo design (WAVE design) and lululemon as a word mark. We own trademark registrations for names of several of our fabrics and products including Luon, Silverescent, Pacebreaker, Rulu, Scuba, Wunder Under, VitaSea, Boolux, Luxtreme, Groove Pant, Light as Air, Booby Bracer, Ta Ta Tamer and Power Y. In addition to trademarks, we own 32 industrial design registrations in Canada that protect our 4 Table of Contents distinctive apparel and accessory designs, as well as a number of corresponding design patents in the United States and registered community designs in Europe. Securities and Exchange Commission Filings Our website address is www.lululemon.com. We provide free access to various reports that we file with, or furnish to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, through our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed or furnished. These reports include, but are not limited to, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports. Our SEC reports can also be accessed through the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Also available on our website are printable versions of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and charters of the Audit, Compensation, and Nominating and Governance Committees of our Board of Directors. Information on our website does not constitute part of this annual report on Form 10-K or any other report we file or furnish with the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial could also impair our business and operations. Our success depends on our ability to maintain the value and reputation of our brand. Our success depends on the value and reputation of the lululemon athletica brand. The lululemon athletica name is integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing and merchandising efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality product and guest experience. We rely on social media, as one of our marketing strategies, to have a positive impact on both our brand value and reputation. Our brand could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives or if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity. Negative publicity regarding the production methods of any of our suppliers or manufacturers could adversely affect our reputation and sales and force us to locate alternative suppliers or manufacturing sources. Additionally, while we devote considerable efforts and resources to protecting our intellectual property, if these efforts are not successful the value of our brand may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If any of our products are unacceptable to us or our guests, our business could be harmed. We have occasionally received, and may in the future continue to receive, shipments of products that fail to comply with our technical specifications or that fail to conform to our quality control standards. We have also received, and may in the future continue to receive, products that either meet our technical specifications but that are nonetheless unacceptable to us, or products that are otherwise unacceptable to us or our guests. Under these circumstances, unless we are able to obtain replacement products in a timely manner, we risk the loss of net revenue resulting from the inability to sell those products and related increased administrative and shipping costs. Additionally, if the unacceptability of our products are not discovered until after such products are purchased by our guests, our guests could lose confidence in the technical attributes of our products and our results of operations could suffer and our business, reputation, and brand could be harmed. Our reliance on suppliers to provide fabrics for and to produce our products could cause problems in our supply chain. We do not manufacture our products or the raw materials for them and rely instead on suppliers. Many of the specialty fabrics used in our products are technically advanced textile products developed and manufactured by third parties and may be available, in the short-term, from only one or a very limited number of sources. For example, Luon fabric, which is included in many of our products, is supplied to the garment factories we use by a limited number of manufacturers, and the components used in manufacturing Luon fabric may each be supplied to our manufacturers by single companies. In fiscal 2014 , approximately 63% of our products were produced by our top five manufacturing suppliers, 40% of raw materials were produced by a single manufacturer. We have no long-term contracts with any of our suppliers or manufacturing sources for the production and supply of our fabrics and garments, and we compete with other companies for fabrics, raw materials, production and import quota capacity. We have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, a significant disruption in the supply of fabrics or raw materials from current sources and we may be unable to locate alternative materials suppliers of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. In addition, if we experience significant increased demand, or if we need to replace an existing supplier or manufacturer, we may be unable to locate additional supplies of fabrics or raw materials or additional 5 Table of Contents manufacturing capacity on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or we may be unable to locate any supplier or manufacturer with sufficient capacity to meet our requirements or to fill our orders in a timely manner. Identifying a suitable supplier is an involved process that requires us to become satisfied with its quality control, responsiveness and service, financial stability and labor and other ethical practices. Even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing or fabric sources, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our suppliers and manufacturers in our methods, products and quality control standards. Delays related to supplier changes could also arise due to an increase in shipping times if new suppliers are located farther away from our markets or from other participants in our supply chain. Any delays, interruption or increased costs in the supply of fabric or manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet guest demand for our products and result in lower net revenue and income from operations both in the short and long term. An economic downturn or economic uncertainty in our key markets may adversely affect consumer discretionary spending and demand for our products. Many of our products may be considered discretionary items for consumers. Factors affecting the level of consumer spending for such discretionary items include general economic conditions, particularly those in North America and other factors such as consumer confidence in future economic conditions, fears of recession, the availability of consumer credit, levels of unemployment, tax rates and the cost of consumer credit. As global economic conditions continue to be volatile or economic uncertainty remains, trends in consumer discretionary spending also remain unpredictable and subject to reductions due to credit constraints and uncertainties about the future. Unfavorable economic conditions may lead consumers to delay or reduce purchase of our products. Consumer demand for our products may not reach our sales targets, or may decline, when there is an economic downturn or economic uncertainty in our key markets, particularly in North America. Our sensitivity to economic cycles and any related fluctuation in consumer demand may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive market and the size and resources of some of our competitors may allow them to compete more effectively than we can, resulting in a loss of our market share and a decrease in our net revenue and profitability. The market for technical athletic apparel is highly competitive. Competition may result in pricing pressures, reduced profit margins or lost market share or a failure to grow our market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We compete directly against wholesalers and direct retailers of athletic apparel, including large, diversified apparel companies with substantial market share and established companies expanding their production and marketing of technical athletic apparel, as well as against retailers specifically focused on women's athletic apparel. We also face competition from wholesalers and direct retailers of traditional commodity athletic apparel, such as cotton T-shirts and sweatshirts. Many of our competitors are large apparel and sporting goods companies with strong worldwide brand recognition, such as Nike, Inc., adidas AG, The Gap, Inc. and Under Armour, Inc. Because of the fragmented nature of the industry, we also compete with other apparel sellers, including those specializing in yoga apparel. Many of our competitors have significant competitive advantages, including longer operating histories, larger and broader customer bases, more established relationships with a broader set of suppliers, greater brand recognition and greater financial, research and development, store development, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. In addition, our technical athletic apparel is sold at a price premium to traditional athletic apparel. Our competitors may be able to achieve and maintain brand awareness and market share more quickly and effectively than we can. In contrast to our "grassroots" marketing approach, many of our competitors promote their brands through traditional forms of advertising, such as print media and television commercials, and through celebrity endorsements, and have substantial resources to devote to such efforts. Our competitors may also create and maintain brand awareness using traditional forms of advertising more quickly than we can. Our competitors may also be able to increase sales in their new and existing markets faster than we do by emphasizing different distribution channels than we do, such as catalog sales or an extensive franchise network, as opposed to distribution through retail stores, wholesale or internet, and many of our competitors have substantial resources to devote toward increasing sales in such ways. In addition, because we own no patents or exclusive intellectual property rights in the technology, fabrics or processes underlying our products, our current and future competitors are able to manufacture and sell products with performance characteristics, fabrication techniques and styling similar to our products. Our sales and profitability may decline as a result of increasing product costs and decreasing selling prices. Our business is subject to significant pressure on pricing and costs caused by many factors, including intense competition, constrained sourcing capacity and related inflationary pressure, pressure from consumers to reduce the prices we charge for our products and changes in consumer demand. These factors may cause us to experience increased costs, reduce our sales prices to consumers or experience reduced sales in response to increased prices, any of which could cause our operating 6 Table of Contents margin to decline if we are unable to offset these factors with reductions in operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions, operating results and cash flows. If we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences and successfully develop and introduce new, innovative and updated products, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales and profitability. Our success depends on our ability to identify and originate product trends as well as to anticipate and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. All of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that cannot be predicted with certainty. If we are unable to introduce new products or novel technologies in a timely manner or our new products or technologies are not accepted by our guests, our competitors may introduce similar products in a more timely fashion, which could hurt our goal to be viewed as a leader in technical athletic apparel innovation. Our new products may not receive consumer acceptance as consumer preferences could shift rapidly to different types of athletic apparel or away from these types of products altogether, and our future success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to these changes. Failure to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer preferences could lead to, among other things, lower sales and excess inventory levels. Even if we are successful in anticipating consumer preferences, our ability to adequately react to and address those preferences will in part depend upon our continued ability to develop and introduce innovative, high-quality products. Our failure to effectively introduce new products that are accepted by consumers could result in a decrease in net revenue and excess inventory levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to accurately forecast guest demand for our products. To ensure adequate inventory supply, we must forecast inventory needs and place orders with our manufacturers based on our estimates of future demand for particular products. Our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products could be affected by many factors, including an increase or decrease in guest demand for our products or for products of our competitors, our failure to accurately forecast guest acceptance of new products, product introductions by competitors, unanticipated changes in general market conditions, and weakening of economic conditions or consumer confidence in future economic conditions. If we fail to accurately forecast guest demand we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of products available for sale in our stores or for delivery to guests. Inventory levels in excess of guest demand may result in inventory write-downs or write-offs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which would cause our gross margin to suffer and could impair the strength and exclusivity of our brand. Conversely, if we underestimate guest demand for our products, our manufacturers may not be able to deliver products to meet our requirements, and this could result in damage to our reputation and guest relationships. Our inability to safeguard against security breaches with respect to our information technology systems could disrupt our operations. Our business employs systems and websites that allow for the storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding our business, guests and employees including credit card information. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information and potential liability. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to be able to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. Actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees and engage third party experts and consultants. Advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. Data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues including intentional or inadvertent breach by employees or persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. Any compromise or breach of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant litigation and potential liability and damage to our brand and reputation or other harm to our business. Any material disruption of our information systems could disrupt our business and reduce our sales. We are increasingly dependent on information systems to operate our e-commerce websites, process transactions, respond to guest inquiries, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-efficient operations. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems, including a disruption or slowdown caused by our failure to successfully upgrade our systems, system failures, viruses, computer "hackers" or other causes, could cause information, including data related to guest orders, to be lost or delayed which could-especially if the disruption or slowdown occurred during the holiday season-result in delays in the delivery of products to our stores and guests or lost sales, which could reduce demand for our products and cause our sales to decline. If changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our information systems are inadequate to handle our growth, we could lose guests. 7 Table of Contents If we continue to grow at a rapid pace, we may not be able to effectively manage our growth and the increased complexity of our business and as a result our brand image and financial performance may suffer. We have expanded our operations rapidly since our inception in 1998 and our net revenue has increased from $40.7 million in fiscal 2004 to $1.8 billion in fiscal 2014 . If our operations continue to grow at a rapid pace, we may experience difficulties in obtaining sufficient raw materials and manufacturing capacity to produce our products, as well as delays in production and shipments, as our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing and manufacturing. We could be required to continue to expand our sales and marketing, product development and distribution functions, to upgrade our management information systems and other processes and technology, and to obtain more space for our expanding workforce. This expansion could increase the strain on our resources, and we could experience operating difficulties, including difficulties in hiring, training and managing an increasing number of employees. These difficulties could result in the erosion of our brand image which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The fluctuating cost of raw materials could increase our cost of goods sold and cause our results of operations and financial condition to suffer. The fabrics used by our suppliers and manufacturers include synthetic fabrics whose raw materials include petroleum-based products. Our products also include silver and natural fibers, including cotton. Our costs for raw materials are affected by, among other things, weather, consumer demand, speculation on the commodities market, the relative valuations and fluctuations of the currencies of producer versus consumer countries and other factors that are generally unpredictable and beyond our control. Increases in the cost of raw materials, including petroleum or the prices we pay for silver and our cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles, could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods sold, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our limited operating experience and limited brand recognition in new international markets may limit our expansion strategy and cause our business and growth to suffer. Our future growth depends in part on our expansion efforts outside of North America. We have limited experience with regulatory environments and market practices internationally, and we may not be able to penetrate or successfully operate in any new market. In connection with our expansion efforts we may encounter obstacles we did not face in North America, including cultural and linguistic differences, differences in regulatory environments, labor practices and market practices, difficulties in keeping abreast of market, business and technical developments and foreign guests' tastes and preferences. We may also encounter difficulty expanding into new international markets because of limited brand recognition leading to delayed acceptance of our technical athletic apparel by guests in these new international markets. Our failure to develop our business in new international markets or experiencing disappointing growth outside of existing markets will harm our business and results of operations. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to deliver our products to the market and to meet guest expectations could be harmed. We rely on our distribution facilities for substantially all of our product distribution. Our distribution facilities include computer controlled and automated equipment, which means their operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, electronic or power interruptions or other system failures. In addition, because substantially all of our products are distributed from three locations, our operations could also be interrupted by labor difficulties, extreme or severe weather conditions or by floods, fires or other natural disasters near our distribution centers. For example, severe weather conditions in Sumner, Washington in 2011, including snow and freezing rain, resulted in disruption in our distribution facilities and the local transportation system. If we encounter problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet guest expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could be harmed. Our fabrics and manufacturing technology are not patented and can be imitated by our competitors. The intellectual property rights in the technology, fabrics and processes used to manufacture our products are owned or controlled by our suppliers and are generally not unique to us. Our ability to obtain intellectual property protection for our products is therefore limited and we currently own no patents or exclusive intellectual property rights in the technology, fabrics or processes underlying our products. As a result, our current and future competitors are able to manufacture and sell products with performance characteristics, fabrics and styling similar to our products. Because many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do, they may be able to manufacture and sell products based on our fabrics and manufacturing technology at lower prices than we can. If our competitors do sell similar products to ours at lower prices, our net revenue and profitability could suffer. 8 Table of Contents Our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our brand and weaken our competitive position. We currently rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade dress and unfair competition laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements, to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent infringement of such rights by others, including imitation of our products and misappropriation of our brand. In addition, intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States or Canada, and it may be more difficult for us to successfully challenge the use of our intellectual property rights by other parties in these countries. If we fail to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights, the value of our brand could be diminished and our competitive position may suffer. We are subject to risks associated with leasing retail space subject to long-term and non-cancelable leases. We lease the majority of our stores under operating leases and our inability to secure appropriate real estate or lease terms could impact our ability to grow. Our leases generally have initial terms of between five and ten years, and generally can be extended only in five-year increments if at all. We generally cannot cancel these leases at our option. If an existing or new store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, as we have done in the past and may do in the future, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Similarly, we may be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable leases even if current locations of our stores become unattractive as demographic patterns change. In addition, as each of our leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could require us to close stores in desirable locations. Increasing labor costs and other factors associated with the production of our products in South and South East Asia could increase the costs to produce our products. A significant portion of our products are produced in South and South East Asia and increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in the countries in this area could significantly increase our costs to produce our products and could have a negative impact on our operations, net revenue and earnings. Factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the currencies used in these countries, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products, labor shortage and increases in labor costs, and difficulties in moving products manufactured out of the countries in which they are manufactured and through the ports on the western coast of North America, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors, and natural disasters or health pandemics. A labor strike or other transportation disruption affecting these ports could significantly disrupt our business. Also, the imposition of trade sanctions or other regulations against products imported by us from, or the loss of "normal trade relations" status with any country in which our products are manufactured, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into North America and/or Australia and harm our business. We may not be able to successfully open new store locations in a timely manner, if at all, which could harm our results of operations. Our growth will largely depend on our ability to successfully open and operate new stores. Our approach to identifying locations for our stores typically favors street locations, lifestyle centers and malls where we can be a part of the community. As a result, our stores are typically located near retailers or fitness facilities that we believe are consistent with our guests' lifestyle choices. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of foot traffic in these locations. Our ability to successfully open and operate new stores depends on many factors, including, among others, our ability to: Successful new store openings may also be affected by our ability to initiate our grassroots marketing efforts in advance of opening our first store in a new market. We typically rely on our grassroots marketing efforts to build awareness of our brand and demand for our products. Our grassroots marketing efforts are often lengthy and must be tailored to each new market based on our emerging understanding of the market. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully 9 Table of Contents implement our grassroots marketing efforts in a particular market in a timely manner, if at all. Additionally, we may be unsuccessful in identifying new markets where our technical athletic apparel and other products and brand image will be accepted or the performance of our stores will be considered successful. Our failure to comply with trade and other regulations could lead to investigations or actions by government regulators and negative publicity. The labeling, distribution, importation, marketing and sale of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the Federal Trade Commission, Consumer Product Safety Commission and state attorneys general in the United States, the Competition Bureau and Health Canada in Canada, as well as by various other federal, state, provincial, local and international regulatory authorities in the countries in which our products are distributed or sold. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could become subject to enforcement actions or the imposition of significant penalties or claims, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and could impair the marketing of our products, resulting in significant loss of net revenue. Our international operations are also subject to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other anti-bribery laws applicable to our operations. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be a local custom that businesses operating in such countries engage in business practices that are prohibited by the FCPA or other U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us. Although we have implemented procedures designed to ensure compliance with the FCPA and similar laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, agents and other channel partners, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will not take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation could have a material and adverse effect on our business. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees. In the last several years, several members of our senior management team have left us and we have focused time and resources on recruiting the new members of our current management team. The continued turnover of senior management and the loss of key members of our executive team could have a negative impact on our ability to manage and grow our business effectively. We do not maintain a key person life insurance policy on any of the members of our senior management team. As a result, we would have no way to cover the financial loss if we were to lose the services of members of our senior management team. Our business is affected by seasonality. Our business is affected by the general seasonal trends common to the retail apparel industry. Our annual net revenue is weighted more heavily toward our fourth fiscal quarter, reflecting our historical strength in sales during the holiday season, while our operating expenses are more equally distributed throughout the year. As a result, a substantial portion of our operating profits are generated in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. For example, we generated approximately 42% , 39% and 41% of our full year operating profit during the fourth quarters of fiscal 2014 , fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012 , respectively. This seasonality may adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate, and, as a result, we believe that comparisons of our operating results between different quarters within a single fiscal year are not necessarily meaningful and that results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. Because a significant portion of our net revenue and expenses are generated in countries other than the United States, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have negatively affected our results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is generally the applicable local currency. Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Therefore, the net revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries are translated from their functional currencies into U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar affect the reported amounts of net revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities. Foreign exchange differences which arise on translation of our foreign subsidiaries’ balance sheets into U.S. dollars are recorded as a cumulative translation adjustment in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders' equity. We also have exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates associated with transactions which are undertaken by our subsidiaries in currencies other than their functional currency. Such transactions include intercompany transactions and inventory purchases denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the purchasing entity. As a result, we have been impacted by changes in exchange rates and may be impacted materially for the foreseeable future. The potential impact of currency fluctuation increases as international expansion increases. 10 Table of Contents We currently generate a significant portion of our net revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in Canada. The reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar during fiscal 2014 has resulted in: A 10% depreciation in the relative value of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar compared to the exchange rates in effect for fiscal 2014 would have resulted in lost income from operations of approximately $2.2 million in fiscal 2014 . This assumes a consistent 10% depreciation in the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar throughout the fiscal year. The timing of changes in the relative value of the Canadian dollar combined with the seasonal nature of our business, can affect the magnitude of the impact that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates have on our income from operations. We have not historically hedged foreign currency fluctuations. However, in the future, in an effort to mitigate losses associated with these risks, we may at times enter into derivative financial instruments, although we have not historically done so. We do not, and do not intend to, engage in the practice of trading derivative securities for profit. The operations of many of our suppliers are subject to additional risks that are beyond our control and that could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Almost all of our suppliers are located outside of North America. During fiscal 2014 , approximately 59% of our products were produced in South East Asia, approximately 23% in South Asia, approximately 11% in China, approximately 1% in North America and the remainder in other countries. As a result of our international suppliers, we are subject to risks associated with doing business abroad, including: These and other factors beyond our control could interrupt our suppliers' production in offshore facilities, influence the ability of our suppliers to export our products cost-effectively or at all and inhibit our suppliers' ability to procure certain materials, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to source our merchandise profitably or at all could be hurt if new trade restrictions are imposed or existing trade restrictions become more burdensome. The United States and the countries in which our products are produced or sold internationally have imposed and may impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs, or other restrictions or regulations, or may adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels. We have expanded our relationships with suppliers outside of China, which among other things has resulted in increased costs and shipping times for some products. Countries impose, modify and remove tariffs and other trade restrictions in response to a diverse array of factors, including global and national economic and political conditions, which make it impossible for us to predict future developments regarding tariffs and other trade restrictions. Trade restrictions, including tariffs, quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of products available to us or may require us to modify our supply chain organization or other current business practices, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our trademarks and other proprietary rights could potentially conflict with the rights of others and we may be prevented from selling some of our products. Our success depends in large part on our brand image. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights have significant value and are important to identifying and differentiating our products from those of our competitors and creating 11 Table of Contents and sustaining demand for our products. We have obtained and applied for some United States and foreign trademark registrations, and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. However, we cannot guarantee that any of our pending trademark applications will be approved by the applicable governmental authorities. Moreover, even if the applications are approved, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge these registrations. Additionally, we cannot assure you that obstacles will not arise as we expand our product line and the geographic scope of our sales and marketing. Third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand our business and the number of products we offer. Our defense of any claim, regardless of its merit, could be expensive and time consuming and could divert management resources. Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from selling some of our products. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to redesign our products, license rights from third parties or cease using those rights altogether. Any of these events could harm our business and cause our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition to suffer. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay and discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider to be favorable. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make it more difficult or impossible for a third-party to acquire control of us or effect a change in our board of directors and management. These provisions include: In addition, we are governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to some specified exceptions, prohibits "business combinations" between a Delaware corporation and an "interested stockholder," which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests.