.” Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements after the date they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. ​ 2 Table of Contents PART I The terms “Comfort Systems,” “we,” “us,” or “the Company” refer to Comfort Systems USA, Inc. or Comfort Systems USA, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, as appropriate in the context. ITEM 1. Business Comfort Systems USA, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was established in 1997. We provide mechanical and electrical contracting services. Our mechanical segment principally includes heating, ventilation and air conditioning (“HVAC”), plumbing, piping and controls, as well as off-site construction, monitoring and fire protection. Our electrical segment includes installation and servicing of electrical systems. We build, install, maintain, repair and replace mechanical, electrical and plumbing (“MEP”) systems throughout our 37 operating units with 139 locations in 114 cities throughout the United States. We operate primarily in the commercial, industrial and institutional MEP markets and perform most of our services in industrial, healthcare, education, office, technology, retail and government facilities. Substantially all of our consolidated 2020 revenue was derived from commercial, industrial and institutional customers and multi-family residential projects. Approximately 46.7% of our revenue was attributable to installation services in newly constructed facilities and 53.3% was attributable to renovation, expansion, maintenance, repair and replacement services in existing buildings. Our consolidated 2020 revenue was derived from the following service industries: Industry Overview We believe that commercial, industrial, and institutional mechanical and electrical contracting generate annual revenue in the United States of approximately $200 billion. Mechanical and electrical systems are necessary to virtually all commercial, industrial and institutional buildings. Because most buildings are sealed, HVAC systems provide the primary method of circulating fresh air in such buildings. Replacing an aging building’s existing systems with modern, energy-efficient systems significantly reduces a building’s energy consumption, carbon footprint, and operating costs while improving air quality and overall system effectiveness. Older commercial, industrial and institutional facilities frequently have poor air quality and provide less comfortable environments, and older HVAC systems result in significantly higher energy consumption than do modern systems. As electrical systems age they require service and replacement, and changing building configurations and technological power load requirements lead to the need to reconfigure and improve electrical systems in buildings on a regular basis. Many factors affect mechanical and electrical services industry growth, including but not limited to, (i) population growth, which increases the need for commercial, industrial and institutional space, (ii) an aging installed base of buildings and equipment, (iii) increasing sophistication, complexity and efficiency of mechanical and electrical systems, and (iv) growing emphasis on internal air quality, environmental sustainability and energy efficiency. Our industry can be broadly divided into two categories: Construction, Installation, Expansion and Renovation Services — Construction, installation, expansion and renovation services consist of “design and build” and “plan and spec” projects. In “design and build” projects, the commercial MEP company is responsible for designing, engineering and installing a cost-effective, energy-efficient system customized to the specific needs of the building owner. Costs and other project terms are normally negotiated 3 Table of Contents between the building owner or its representative and the contracting company. Companies that specialize in “design and build” projects use a consultative approach with customers and tend to develop long-term relationships with building owners and developers, general contractors, architects, consulting engineers and property managers. “Plan and spec” installation refers to projects in which a third-party architect or consulting engineer designs the MEP systems and the installation project is “put out for bid.” We believe that “plan and spec” projects usually take longer to complete and frequently results in less efficient outcomes than “design and build” projects because the system design and installation process are not integrated, thus resulting in more frequent adjustments to project specifications, work requirements and schedules. Our investments in design and building information modeling enable us to collaborate with our customers to achieve reliable and energy efficient construction outcomes and to eliminate unnecessary waste. Maintenance, Repair and Replacement Services —These services include maintaining, repairing, replacing, reconfiguring and monitoring previously installed systems and building automation controls. The growth and aging of the installed base of MEP and related systems, changing requirements due to increasing technology deployment, and the demand for more efficient systems and more capable building automation controls have fueled growth in these services. The increasing complexity of these systems leads many commercial, industrial and institutional building owners and property managers to outsource maintenance and repair, often through service agreements with service providers. State-of-the-art control and monitoring systems feature electronic sensors and microprocessors that are crucial to energy efficient operations. These systems require specialized training to install, maintain and repair. We believe that the work that we perform to optimize and upgrade systems and to enable wise controls helps Comfort Systems USA to optimize energy use and fundamentally reduce our nation’s carbon footprint. Strategy We focus on strengthening core operating competencies, leading in sustainability, efficiency and technological improvement, and on increasing profit margins. The key objectives of our strategy are to improve profitability and generate growth in our operations, to enable sustainable and efficient building environments, to improve the productivity of our workforce, and to acquire complementary businesses. In order to accomplish our objectives, we are currently focused on the following elements: Achieve Excellence in Core Competencies —We have identified seven core competencies that we believe are critical to attracting and retaining customers, increasing operating income and cash flow and maximizing the productivity of our increasingly valuable skilled labor force. The seven core competencies are: (i) safety, (ii) customer service, (iii) design and build expertise, (iv) effective pre-construction processes, (v) job and cost tracking, (vi) leadership in energy efficient and sustainable design, and (vii) best-in-class servicing of existing building systems. Achieve Operating Efficiencies —We think we can achieve operating efficiencies and cost savings through purchasing economies, adopting operational “best practices,” and focusing on job management to deliver services in a cost-effective and efficient manner. We are continually improving the “job loop” at our locations—qualifying, estimating, pricing and executing projects effectively and efficiently. We also use our combined spend to gain purchasing advantages on products and services such as MEP components, raw materials, services, vehicles, bonding, insurance and employee benefits. Attract, Retain and Invest in our Employees —We seek to attract and retain quality employees by providing them an enhanced career path that offers a stable income, attractive benefits packages and excellent advancement opportunities. We continually invest in training, including programs for project managers, field superintendents, service managers, service technicians, sales managers, estimators, and leadership and development of key managers and leaders. We believe that skilled labor forces in the building and services trades have become increasingly scarce and valuable, and we are increasing our national and local focus on growing and improving our skilled labor force, including through recruitment, development and skills training for our hourly workers. Focus on Industrial, Commercial and Institutional Markets —We focus on the industrial, commercial and institutional building markets, including construction, maintenance, repair and replacement services. We believe that these complex markets are attractive because of their growth opportunities, large and diverse customer base, attractive margins and potential for long-term relationships with building owners. Leverage Resources and Capabilities —We believe significant operating efficiencies can be achieved by leveraging resources among our operating locations. We have shifted certain fabrication activities to centralized 4 Table of Contents locations in order to increase asset utilization. We opportunistically allocate our engineering, field and supervisory labor from one operation to another to use our employee base more fully, meet our customers’ needs and share expertise. Our ability to share resources frequently allows us to pursue work that would otherwise not be available to us and allows us to provide a more diversified and steady deployment of our labor. We believe we have realized scale benefits from coordinated purchasing, technical innovation, insurance, benefits, bonding and financing activities across our operations. Maintain a Diverse Customer, Geographic and Project Base —We have a distribution of revenue across end-use sectors that we believe reduces our exposure to negative developments in any given sector. We also have significant geographical diversification across all regions of the United States, again reducing our exposure to negative developments in any given region. Our distribution of revenue in 2020 by end-use sector was as follows: ​ Approximately 87.0% of our revenue is earned on a project basis for installation of systems in newly constructed or existing facilities. As of December 31, 2020, we had 5,687 projects in process with an aggregate contract value of approximately $5.0 billion. Our average project takes six to nine months to complete, with an average contract price of approximately $871,000. This average project size, when taken together with the approximately 13.0% of our revenue derived from maintenance and service, provides us with a broad base of work in the construction services sector. A stratification of projects in progress as of December 31, 2020, by contract price, is as follows: Develop and Adopt Leading Technologies —We are improving productivity by increasing use of innovative techniques in prefabrication, project design and planning, as well as in coordination and production methods. We have invested in the refinement and adoption of prefabrication practices. We work to identify, develop and implement new materials, products and methods that can achieve greater productivity and more efficient and sustainable outcomes. Above all, we have concluded that as technology develops in our industry the fundamental prerequisite for leadership in adopting such opportunities is the quality, accuracy and buildability of our designs. Accordingly, we have invested in the experts, training, and internal and external knowledge transfer to ensure that we are properly scaling, achieving true buildability and fundamentally and continuously improving our design capabilities to meet our customers’ evolving requirements. Our goal is to use our scale and strategic investments to maintain a leading position in design and modeling excellence, and we believe that will enable us to optimize productivity and quality today, and especially will position us to wisely capitalize from ongoing or future technological developments. Excel at Modular and Off-Site Construction —We believe that modular and off-site construction – the ability to build superior quality plants and systems away from the construction site – will become increasingly important in complex construction projects. Accordingly, through our acquisitions, we have invested in that capability, and after acquisition we have further invested in improving and growing that service offering. This has led to meaningful growth in our ability to provide this expertise. Through recent and ongoing development and acquisitions, we plan to continue to improve on our unmatched capability in mechanical off-site or modular construction. With our recent acquisition of 5 Table of Contents Starr Electric Company, Incorporated in North Carolina and TAS Energy Inc. in Texas, we significantly improved our off-site construction capabilities and offerings and will continue to invest in the improvement of these offerings. Although complex modular construction is a small percentage of our current revenue, we believe that it is ripe for investment and growth and that it helps us to sell work and improve outcomes across our businesses. Service Growth Initiative —Over the last several years we have made substantial investments to expand our service and maintenance revenue by increasing the value we can offer to service and maintenance customers. We are actively concentrating managerial and sales resources on training and hiring experienced employees to sell and profitably perform service work. In many locations we have added or upgraded our capability, and we believe our investments and efforts have provided customer value and stimulated growth in all aspects of our businesses. Seek Growth through Acquisitions —We believe that we can further increase our cash flow and operating income by continuing to opportunistically enter new markets or service lines through acquisition. We have dedicated a significant portion of our cash flow on an ongoing basis to seeking opportunities to acquire businesses that have strong assembled workforces, excellent historical safety performance, leading design and energy efficiency capabilities, attractive market positions, a record of consistent positive cash flow, and desirable market locations. Operations and Services Provided We provide a wide range of construction, renovation, expansion, maintenance, repair and replacement services for MEP and related systems in commercial, industrial and institutional properties. Our local management teams maintain responsibility for day-to-day operating decisions. Local management is augmented by regional leadership that focuses on core business competencies, regional financial performance, cooperation and coordination between locations, implementing best practices and corporate initiatives. In addition to senior management, local personnel generally include design engineers, energy efficiency and sustainability experts, sales personnel, customer service personnel, installation and service technicians, sheet metal and prefabrication technicians, estimators and administrative personnel. We have centralized certain administrative functions such as insurance, employee benefits, training, safety programs, marketing and cash management to enable our local operating management to focus on pursuing new business opportunities and improving operating efficiencies. Construction and Installation Services for New Buildings —Our installation business related to newly constructed facilities, which comprised approximately 46.7% of our consolidated 2020 revenue, involves the design, engineering, integration, installation and start-up of MEP and related systems. We provide “design and build” and “plan and spec” installation services for office buildings, retail centers, manufacturing plants, healthcare, education and government facilities and other commercial, industrial and institutional facilities. In a “design and build” installation, we work with the customer to determine the needed capacity and to optimize energy efficiency of the MEP systems that best suit the proposed facility. The final design, terms, price and timing of the project are then negotiated with the customer or its representatives, after which any necessary modifications are made to the system plan. In “plan and spec” installation, we participate in a bid process to provide labor, equipment, materials and installation based on the end user’s plans and engineering specifications. Once an agreement has been reached, we order the necessary materials and equipment for delivery to meet the project schedule. In many instances we fabricate ductwork, conduit and piping and assemble certain components for the system based on the mechanical drawing specifications. Finally, we install the systems at the project site, working closely with the owner or general contractor. Our average project takes six to nine months to complete, with an average contract price of approximately $871,000. We also perform larger project work, with 782 contracts in progress at December 31, 2020 with contract prices in excess of $1 million. Our largest project in progress at December 31, 2020 had a contract price of $78.3 million. Project contracts typically provide for periodic billings to the customer as we meet progress milestones or incur cost on the project. Project contracts in our industry also frequently allow for a small portion of progress billings or contract price to be withheld by the customer until after we have completed the work. Amounts withheld under this practice are known as retention or retainage. Renovation, Expansion, Maintenance, Monitoring, Repair and Replacement Services for Existing Buildings —Our renovation, expansion, maintenance, monitoring, repair and replacement services in existing buildings comprised approximately 53.3% of our consolidated 2020 revenue. Maintenance and repair services are provided either in response to service calls or under a service agreement. Service calls are coordinated by customer service representatives or dispatchers that use computer and communication technology to process orders, arrange service calls, dispatch 6 Table of Contents technicians and communicate with and invoice customers. Service technicians work from service vehicles equipped with commonly used parts, supplies and tools to complete a variety of jobs. Optimal maintenance is crucial to energy efficient operations. Commercial, industrial and institutional service agreements usually have terms of one or more years, with automatic annual renewals, and frequently include thirty- to sixty-day cancellation notice periods. We also provide remote monitoring of power usage, temperature, pressure, humidity and air flow for MEP and other building systems. Sources of Supply The raw materials and components we use include MEP system components, ductwork, pipe, conduit, wire, electrical fixtures, steel, sheet metal and copper tubing and piping. These raw materials and components are generally available from a variety of domestic or foreign suppliers at competitive prices. Delivery times are typically short for most raw materials and standard components, but during periods of peak demand, may extend to one month or more. We estimate that direct purchase of commodities and finished products comprises between 25% and 30% of our average project cost. We have procedures to reduce commodity cost exposure such as purchasing commodities early for particular projects, as well as selectively using time or market-based escalation and escape provisions in bids and contracts. Chillers for large applications typically have the longest delivery time and frequently have lead times of up to six months. The major components of commercial MEP systems are compressors and chillers that are manufactured primarily by Carrier, Lennox, Daikin, Trane and York. The major suppliers of building automation control systems are Automated Logic, Cisco, Delta, Distech Controls, Honeywell, Johnson Controls, Rockwell Automation, Schneider Electric, Siemens, Trane and York. We do not have any significant contracts guaranteeing us a supply of raw materials or components. Cyclicality and Seasonality The construction industry is subject to business cycle fluctuation. As a result, our volume of business, particularly in new construction projects and renovation, may be adversely affected by declines in new installation and replacement projects in various geographic regions of the United States during periods of economic weakness. The mechanical and electrical contracting industries are also subject to seasonal variations. The demand for new installation and replacement is generally lower during the winter months (the first quarter of the year) due to reduced construction activity during inclement weather and less use of air conditioning during the colder months. Demand for our services is generally higher in the second and third calendar quarters due to increased construction activity and increased use of air conditioning during the warmer months. Accordingly, we expect our revenue and operating results generally will be lower in the first calendar quarter. Sales and Marketing We have a diverse customer base, with our top customer representing 5% of consolidated 2020 revenue, and our largest customer often changes from year to year. Management and a dedicated sales force are responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with key customers. Customers generally include building owners and developers and property managers, as well as general contractors, architects and consulting engineers. We intend to continue our emphasis on developing and maintaining long-term relationships with our customers by providing superior, high-quality service in a professional manner. We believe we can continue to leverage the diverse technical and marketing strengths at individual locations to expand the services offered in other local markets. With respect to multi-location service opportunities, we maintain a national sales force in our national accounts group. Human Capital Resources Employees —As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 11,100 employees as compared to approximately 12,000 employees as of December 31, 2019. We have collective bargaining agreements covering less than ten employees. We have not experienced and do not expect any significant strikes or work stoppages and believe our relations with employees covered by collective bargaining agreements are good. Culture and Core Values —Our values define, inform, and guide the way we operate on a daily basis, both within our Company and in the communities where we do business. Our core values are: be safe; be honest; be 7 Table of Contents respectful; be innovative; and be collaborative. These values set the foundation for our Code of Conduct, which applies to all employees, officers, and directors of the Comfort Systems USA family of companies. The Code of Conduct is regularly reinforced to the Company’s employees and management through periodic ethics, equal opportunity employment, and anti-corruption trainings. In addition, certain business partners, such as consultants, agents, suppliers, contractors, and other third parties, serve as an extension of the Company. They are expected to follow the spirit of our Code of Conduct, all applicable laws, and any applicable contractual provisions when working on our behalf. We believe that the way we conduct business is just as important as the business we do. Operating with integrity helps us deliver on the promises we have made to each other, our customers, and the communities where we live and work. It is also the basis for ensuring continued growth and success. Everyone at our Company shares a responsibility for doing business ethically and in a sustainable manner, preserving our good name. We ensure that this responsibility applies at every level in our organization, and everyone from corporate officers, to members of our Board of Directors, to our field personnel is responsible for overseeing these efforts. Recruiting and Training —Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified engineers, service technicians, field supervisors and project managers. We believe our success in retaining qualified employees will be based on the quality of our recruiting, training, compensation, employee benefits programs and opportunities for advancement. We provide numerous training programs for management, sales and leadership, as well as on-the-job training, technical training, apprenticeship programs, attractive benefit packages and career advancement opportunities within our Company. Safety —We have established comprehensive safety programs throughout our operations to ensure that all employees comply with safety standards we have established and that are established under federal, state and local laws and regulations. Safety leadership establishes safety programs and benchmarking to improve safety across the Company. Additionally, our employment screening process seeks to determine that prospective employees have requisite skills, sufficient background references and acceptable driving records, if applicable. Our rate of incidents recordable under the standards of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) per one hundred employees per year, also known as the OSHA recordable rate, was 1.36 during 2020. This level was 20% better than the most recently published OSHA rate for our industry. Diversity and Inclusion —We are an equal opportunity employer, and we welcome and celebrate our teams’ differences, experiences, and beliefs. We expect all employees to be treated with dignity and respect in an environment free from discrimination and harassment regardless of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, age, disability, veteran status, genetic information or any other protected class. We know that diversity is truly a competitive advantage that helps drive growth and innovation, and we have increasingly focused on diversity and inclusion programs within our Company. Diversity and inclusion is among our leadership team’s top priorities, with clearly outlined near-term actions to accelerate progress in outreach, representation, development and advancement of underrepresented groups within our Company. Our Board of Directors and Board committees provide oversight on certain human capital matters, including our diversity and inclusion strategy. Insurance and Litigation The primary insured risks in our operations are bodily injury, property damage and workers’ compensation injuries. We retain the risk for workers’ compensation, employer’s liability, auto liability, general liability and employee group health claims resulting from uninsured deductibles per-incident or occurrence. Because we have very large per incident deductibles, the vast majority of our claims are paid by us, so as a practical matter we self-insure the great majority of these risks. Losses up to such per-incident deductible amounts are estimated and accrued based upon known facts, historical trends and industry averages using the assistance of an actuary to project the extent of these obligations. We are subject to certain claims and lawsuits arising in the normal course of business. We maintain various insurance coverages to minimize financial risk associated with these claims. We have estimated and provided accruals for probable losses and related legal fees associated with certain litigation in our consolidated financial statements. While we cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings, in our opinion and based on reports of counsel, any liability arising from these matters individually and in the aggregate will not have a material effect on our operating results, cash flows or financial condition, after giving effect to provisions already recorded. We typically warrant labor for the first year after installation on new MEP systems that we build and install, and we pass through to the customer manufacturers’ warranties on equipment. We generally warrant labor for thirty days after servicing existing MEP systems. We do not expect warranty claims to have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Competition The mechanical and electrical contracting industries are highly competitive and consist of thousands of local and regional companies. We believe that purchasing decisions in the commercial, industrial and institutional markets are based on (i) competitive price, (ii) relationships, (iii) quality, timeliness and reliability, (iv) tenure, financial strength and access to bonding, (v) range of capabilities, and (vi) scale of operation. To improve our competitive position, we focus on both the consultative “design and build” installation market and the maintenance, repair and replacement market in order to develop and strengthen customer relationships. In addition, we believe our ability to provide multi-location coverage and a broad range of services gives us a strategic advantage over smaller competitors who may have more limited resources and capabilities. We believe that we are larger than most of our competitors, which are generally small, owner-operated companies in a specific area. However, there are divisions of larger contracting companies, utilities and MEP equipment manufacturers that provide MEP services in some of the same service lines and geographic areas we serve. Some of these competitors and potential competitors have greater financial resources than we do to finance development opportunities and support their operations. We believe our smaller competitors generally compete with us based on price and their long-term relationships with local customers. Our larger competitors compete with us on those factors but may also provide attractive financing and comprehensive service and product packages. Vehicles We operate a fleet of various owned or leased service trucks, vans and support vehicles. We believe these vehicles generally are well maintained and sufficient for our current operations. Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including: (i) licensing requirements applicable to engineering, construction and service technicians, (ii) building and MEP codes and zoning ordinances, (iii) regulations relating to consumer protection, including those governing residential service agreements, (iv) special bidding and procurement requirements on government projects, (v) wage and hour regulations, and (vi) regulations relating to worker safety and protection of the environment. For example, our operations are subject to the requirements of OSHA and comparable state laws directed towards protection of employees. We believe we have all required licenses to conduct our operations and are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses. Many state and local regulations governing the MEP services trades require individuals to hold permits and licenses. In some cases, a required permit or license held by a single individual may be sufficient to authorize specified activities for all of our service technicians who work in the state or county that issued the permit or license. We seek to ensure that, where possible, we have two employees who hold any such permits or licenses that may be material to our operations in a particular geographic region. Our operations are subject to the federal Clean Air Act, as amended, which governs air emissions and imposes specific requirements on the use and handling of ozone-depleting refrigerants generally classified as chlorofluorocarbons (“CFCs”) or hydrochlorofluorocarbons (“HCFCs”). Clean Air Act regulations promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“USEPA”) require the certification of service technicians involved in the service or repair of equipment containing these refrigerants and also regulate the containment and recycling of these refrigerants. These requirements have increased our training expenses and expenditures for containment and recycling equipment. The Clean Air Act is intended ultimately to eliminate the use of ozone-depleting substances such as CFCs and HCFCs in the United States and to require alternative refrigerants to be used in replacement HVAC systems. Some replacement refrigerants, already in use, and classified as hydrofluorocarbons (“HFCs”) are not ozone-depleting substances. HFCs are considered by USEPA to have high global warming potential. USEPA may at some point require the phase-out of HFCs and expand existing technician certification requirements to cover the handling of HFCs. We do not believe the existing regulations governing technician certification requirements for the handling of ozone-depleting substances or possible future regulations applicable to HFCs will materially affect our business on the whole because, although they require us to incur modest ongoing training costs, our competitors also incur such costs, and such regulations may encourage or require our customers to update their MEP systems. 9 Table of Contents Additional Information Our Internet address is www.comfortsystemsusa.com . We make available free of charge on or through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). These materials are also available at www.sec.gov . Our website also includes our code of ethics, titled the “Code of Conduct,” together with other governance materials including our corporate governance standards and our Board committee charters for the audit committee, the compensation committee, and the governance and nominating committee; the executive committee, formed in 2019, operates under written grants of authority that may be amended from time to time by the Board. Printed versions of our code of ethics and our corporate governance standards may be obtained upon written request to our Corporate Compliance Officer at our headquarters address. The content of our websites is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or which we have not determined to be material may also impair our business operations. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information included in this report, including information contained in the “Business,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” sections. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected by the occurrence of any of these events, which could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business Economic downturns in the markets in which we operate may materially and adversely affect our business because our business is dependent on levels of construction activity. The demand for our services is dependent upon the existence of construction projects and service requirements within the markets in which we operate. Any period of economic recession, including the ongoing recession caused by the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (“COVID-19”) pandemic, affecting a market or industry in which we transact business is likely to adversely impact our business. Many of the projects we work on have long lifecycles from conception to completion, and the bulk of our performance generally occurs late in a construction project’s lifecycle. We experience the results of economic trends well after an economic cycle begins, and therefore have generally continued to experience the results of an economic recession well after conditions in the general economy have improved. The industries and markets in which we operate have always been and will continue to be vulnerable to macroeconomic downturns because they are cyclical in nature. When there is a reduction in demand, it often leads to greater price competition as well as decreased revenue and profit. The lasting effects of a recession can also increase economic instability with our vendors, subcontractors, developers, and general contractors, which can increase our liability exposure and result in us not being paid in full or at all on some projects, thus decreasing our revenue and profit. Further, to the extent some of our vendors, subcontractors, developers, or general contractors seek bankruptcy protection, such bankruptcy will likely force us to incur additional costs in attorneys’ fees, as well as other professional consultants, and will result in decreased revenue and profit. Additionally, because 5.7% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 was attributable to projects in the government sector, a reduction in federal, state, or local government spending in our industries and markets could result in decreased revenue and profit for us. 10 Table of Contents Because we bear the risk of cost overruns in most of our contracts, we may experience reduced profits or, in some cases, losses under these contracts if costs increase above our estimates. Our contract prices are established largely based on estimates and assumptions of our projected costs, including assumptions about: future economic conditions; prices, including commodity prices; availability of labor, including the costs of providing labor, equipment, and materials; and other factors outside our control. If our estimates or assumptions prove to be inaccurate, circumstances change in a way that renders our assumptions and estimates inaccurate or we fail to successfully execute the work, cost overruns may occur, and we could experience reduced profits or a loss for affected projects. For instance, unanticipated technical problems may arise, we could have difficulty obtaining permits or approvals, local laws, labor costs or labor conditions could change, bad weather could delay construction, raw materials prices could increase, our suppliers or subcontractors may fail to perform as expected or site conditions may be different than we expected. We are also exposed to increases in energy prices, particularly as they relate to gasoline prices. Additionally, in certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion or the achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels by a scheduled date. Failure to meet schedule or performance requirements typically results in additional costs to us, and in some cases, we may also create liability for consequential and liquidated damages. Performance problems for existing and future projects could cause our actual results of operations to differ materially from those we anticipate and could damage our reputation within our industry and our customer base. Our backlog is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations, which means that amounts included in our backlog may not result in actual revenue or translate into profits. Backlog reflects revenue still to be recognized under contracted or committed installation and replacement project work. Our backlog as of December 31, 2020 was $1.51 billion. The predictive value of backlog information is limited to indications of general revenue direction over the near term, and we cannot guarantee that the revenue projected from our backlog will be realized or, if realized, will be profitable. Projects may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time, or project cancellations or scope adjustments may occur with respect to contracts reflected in our backlog. Such changes may adversely affect the revenues and profit we ultimately realize on these projects. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic repercussions have materially affected how we and our customers, vendors, subcontractors, developers, and general contractors are operating our businesses, and the duration and extent to which this will negatively impact our future results of operations and overall financial performance remains uncertain. ​ The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted consumer spending and global supply chains, and created significant volatility and disruption of financial markets. We have experienced some resulting disruptions to our business operations, and we expect the COVID-19 pandemic could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial performance, including our ability to execute our near-term and long-term business strategies and initiatives in the expected time frame, will depend on future developments, including the duration and severity of the pandemic, the resulting governmental and other measures implemented to address the pandemic and the development and availability of effective treatments and vaccines, which are uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time. ​ We have been negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as a result of the shelter-in-place restrictions and work disruptions in some of our service areas creating disruptions to portions of our operations, particularly in major metropolitan markets that have been meaningfully impacted by the pandemic. We have also experienced permitting and regulatory delays attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition to these current dynamics, the COVID-19 pandemic may create or exacerbate risks related to our operations and regulatory and compliance matters, including as a result of: ​ 11 Table of Contents ​ As a result of these factors, the extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business is highly uncertain. At this point, we cannot reasonably estimate the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, or its ultimate impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Intense competition in our industry could reduce our market share and our profit. The markets we serve are highly fragmented and competitive. Our industry is characterized by many small companies whose activities are geographically concentrated. We compete on the basis of our technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability. While we believe our customers consider a number of these factors in awarding available contracts, a large portion of our work is awarded through a bid process. Consequently, price is often the principal factor in determining which contractor is selected, especially on smaller, less complex projects. Smaller competitors are sometimes able to win bids for these projects based on price alone due to their lower cost and financial return requirements. We expect competition to continue in our industry, presenting us with significant challenges in our ability to maintain strong growth rates and acceptable profit margins. We also expect increased competition from in-house service providers, because some of our customers have employees who perform service work similar to the services we provide. Vertical consolidation could also contribute to competition in our industry. If we are unable to meet these competitive challenges, we will lose market share to our competitors and experience an overall reduction in our profits. In addition, our profitability would be impaired if we have to reduce our prices to remain competitive. Our recent and future acquisitions may not be successful. We expect to continue pursuing selective acquisitions of businesses. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify acquisitions or that we will be able to consummate transactions on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or that acquired businesses will be profitable. Acquisitions may expose us to additional business risks different than those we have traditionally experienced. We also may encounter difficulties integrating acquired businesses and successfully managing the growth we expect to experience from these acquisitions. We may choose to finance future acquisitions with debt, equity, cash or a combination of the three. Future acquisitions could dilute earnings or disrupt the payment of a stockholder dividend. To the extent we make acquisitions, a number of risks will result, including: 12 Table of Contents The failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third parties contribute significantly to our completion of many projects. We hire third-party subcontractors to perform work and depend on third-party suppliers to provide equipment and materials necessary to complete our projects. If we are unable to retain qualified subcontractors or suppliers, or if our subcontractors or suppliers do not perform as anticipated for any reason, our execution, reputation and profitability could be harmed. Earnings for future periods may be impacted by impairment charges for goodwill and intangible assets. We carry a significant amount of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets on our consolidated Balance Sheets. Goodwill is the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the net assets of acquired businesses. We assess goodwill for impairment each year, and more frequently if circumstances suggest an impairment may have occurred. We have determined in the past and may again determine in the future that a significant impairment has occurred in the value of our unamortized intangible assets or fixed assets, which could require us to write off a portion of our assets and could adversely affect our financial condition or our reported results of operations. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting could result in a reduction or reversal of previously recorded revenue or profits. A material portion of our revenue is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, which results in our recognizing contract revenue and earnings ratably over the contract term in the proportion that our actual costs bear to our estimated contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenue, costs and profitability. We review our estimates of contract revenue, costs and profitability on an ongoing basis. Prior to contract completion, we may adjust our estimates on one or more occasions as a result of change orders to the original contract, collection disputes with the customer on amounts invoiced or claims against the customer for increased costs incurred by us due to customer-induced delays and other factors. Contract losses are recognized in the fiscal period when the loss is determined. Contract profit estimates are also adjusted in the fiscal period in which it is determined that an adjustment is required. As a result of the requirements of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, the possibility exists, for example, that we could have estimated and reported a profit on a contract over several periods and later determined, usually near contract completion, that all or a portion of such previously estimated and reported profits were overstated. If this occurs, the full aggregate amount of the overstatement will be reported for the period in which such determination is made, thereby eliminating all or a portion of any profits from other contracts that would have otherwise been reported in such period or even resulting in a loss being reported for such period. On a historical basis, we believe that we have made reasonably reliable estimates of the progress towards completion on our long-term contracts. However, given the uncertainties associated with these types of contracts, it is possible for actual costs to vary from estimates previously made, which may result in reductions or reversals of previously recorded revenue and profits. 13 Table of Contents A significant portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. Any difficulties in the financial and surety markets may adversely affect our bonding capacity and availability. In the past we have expanded, and it is possible we will continue to expand, the number and percentage of total contract dollars that require an underlying bond. Historically surety market conditions have experienced times of difficulty as a result of significant losses incurred by many surety companies and the results of macroeconomic trends outside of our control. Consequently, during times when less overall bonding capacity is available in the market, surety terms have become more expensive and more restrictive. As such, we cannot guarantee our ability to maintain a sufficient level of bonding capacity in the future, which could preclude our ability to bid for certain contracts or successfully contract with some customers. Additionally, even if we continue to be able to access bonding capacity to sufficiently bond future work, we may be required to post collateral to secure bonds, which would decrease the liquidity we would have available for other purposes. Our surety providers are under no commitment to guarantee our access to new bonds in the future; thus, our ability to access or increase bonding capacity is at the sole discretion of our surety providers. If our surety companies were to limit or eliminate our access to bonds, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other surety companies, increasing business with clients that do not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all. As such, if we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity, it is likely we would be unable to compete for or work on certain projects. If we experience delays and/or defaults in customer payments, we could be unable to recover all expenditures. Because of the nature of our contracts, at times we commit resources to projects prior to receiving payments from the customer in amounts sufficient to cover expenditures on projects as they are incurred. Delays in customer payments may require us to make a working capital investment. If a customer defaults in making their payments on a project to which we have devoted resources, it could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be affected by the work environment. We may need to perform our work under a variety of conditions, including but not limited to, difficult terrain, difficult site conditions and busy urban centers where delivery of materials and availability of labor may be impacted, clean-room environments where strict procedures must be followed and sites that may have been exposed to harsh and hazardous conditions and outbreaks of infectious disease, such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. If we are unable to manage the conditions required for certain of our jobs, including the availability of sufficient labor, adherence to environmental, health and safety or other standards, and adequately addressing harsh or hazardous conditions, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. ​ We are susceptible to adverse weather conditions, which may harm our business and financial results. Our business can be highly cyclical and subject to seasonal and other variations that can result in significant differences in operating results from quarter to quarter. Moreover, our business may be adversely affected by severe weather in areas where we have significant operations. Repercussions of severe weather conditions may include: 14 Table of Contents Future climate change could adversely affect us. Climate change may create physical and financial risk to our business. Physical risks from climate change could, among other things, include an increase in extreme weather events (such as floods or hurricanes), rising sea levels and limitations on water availability and quality. Such extreme weather conditions may limit the availability of resources, increasing the costs of our projects, or may cause projects to be delayed or cancelled. Legislation, nationwide protocols, regulation or other restrictions related to climate change could negatively impact our operations or our customers’ operations. Such legislation or restrictions could increase the costs of projects for our customers or, in some cases, prevent a project from going forward, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Continuing worldwide political and economic uncertainties may adversely affect our revenue and profitability. ​ The last several years have been periodically marked by political and economic concerns, including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, decreased consumer confidence, the lingering effects of international conflicts, tariffs, energy costs and inflation. This instability can make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and could cause constrained spending on our services, delays and a lengthening of our business development efforts, the demand for more favorable pricing or other terms, and/or difficulty in collection of our accounts receivable. Our government clients may face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding proposed and existing projects. Further, ongoing economic instability in the global markets, including from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, could limit our ability to access the capital markets at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our ability to react to changing business conditions or new opportunities. If economic conditions remain uncertain or weaken, or government spending is reduced, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. ​ Risks Related to Our Operations If we are unable to attract and retain qualified managers and employees, we will be unable to operate efficiently, which could reduce our profitability. Our business is labor intensive, and many of our operations experience a high rate of employee turnover. At times of low unemployment rates in the United States, it is typically more difficult for us to find qualified personnel at low cost in some geographic areas where we operate. Additionally, our business is managed by a small number of key executive and operational officers. We may be unable to hire and retain the sufficient skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. Our labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Labor shortages, increased labor costs or the loss of key personnel could reduce our profitability and negatively impact our business. Further, our relationships with some customers could suffer if we are unable to retain the employees with whom those customers primarily work and have established relationships. Future growth could also impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. To the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or successfully execute our business plan. We are a decentralized company and place significant decision making powers with our subsidiaries’ management, which presents certain risks. We believe that our practice of placing significant decision making powers with local management is important to our successful growth and allows us to be responsive to opportunities and to our customers’ needs. However, this practice presents certain risks, including the risk that we may be slower or less effective in our attempts to identify or react to problems affecting an important business than we would under a more centralized structure or that we would be slower to identify a misalignment between a subsidiary’s and the Company’s overall business strategy. Further, if a 15 Table of Contents subsidiary location fails to follow the Company’s compliance policies, we could be made party to a contract, arrangement or situation that requires the assumption of large liabilities or has less advantageous terms than is typically found in the market. Information technology system failures, network disruptions or cybersecurity breaches could adversely affect our business. We use and rely significantly on sophisticated information technology systems, networks, and infrastructure in conducting our day to day operations, providing services to certain customers and protecting sensitive Company information. In addition, we also rely on third-party software and information technology for certain of our critical accounting, project management and financial information systems. We also collect and retain information about our customers, stockholders, vendors and employees, with the expectation by such third parties being that we will adequately protect such information. Information technology system failures, including suppliers’ or vendors’ system failures, could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, other business disruptions or the loss of employee or other third-party personal information. We have in the past experienced system interruptions and delays and expect that such interruptions and delays may occur in the future, given the increasing diversity and sophistication of cybersecurity threats. In addition, our systems, networks and infrastructure could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, intentional or inadvertent user misuse or error, failures of information technology solutions, computer viruses, malicious code, ransomware attacks and acts of terrorism. We may also be subject to physical or electronic security breaches, including breaches by computer hackers or cyber-terrorists or unauthorized access to or disclosure of our or our customers’ data. These events could impact our customers, employees and reputation and lead to financial losses from remediation actions, loss of business or access to our business data, potential liability or an increase in expenses, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Similar risks could affect our customers and vendors, indirectly affecting us. While we have security, internal control and technology measures in place to protect our systems and networks, these measures could fail as a result of a cyber-attack, other third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or other security failure. In the ordinary course of business, we have been targeted by malicious cyber-attacks. In April 2019, for example, our information technology infrastructure was impacted by a ransomware attack virus, which caused a substantial majority of our operating locations to experience loss of access to certain data and outages affecting systems including accounting, payroll, billing, job report and management and other software environments. These disruptions created challenges in key back office functions that required workarounds and alternative procedures. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of system disruptions and security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these disruptions and breaches. Any of these events could damage our reputation and, while the April 2019 incident did not have such effects, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, current and future laws and regulations governing data privacy and the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information may pose complex compliance challenges and result in additional costs. A failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in penalties or fines, legal liabilities or reputational harm. The continuing and evolving threat of cyber-attacks has also resulted in increased regulatory focus on risk management and prevention. New cyber-related regulations or other requirements could require significant additional resources and cause us to incur significant costs, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We regularly evaluate the need to upgrade or replace our systems and network infrastructure to protect our information technology environment, to stay current on vendor supported products and to improve the efficiency and scope of our systems and information technology capabilities. The implementation of new systems and information technology could adversely impact our operations by requiring substantial capital expenditures, diverting management’s attention, or causing delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems. In addition, our systems implementations may not result in productivity improvements at the levels anticipated. Systems implementation disruption and any other information technology disruption, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have an adverse effect on our business. 16 Table of Contents Our insurance policies against many potential liabilities require high deductibles, and our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks. Additionally, difficulties in the insurance markets may adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary insurance. We insure various general liability, workers’ compensation, property and auto risks as well as other risks through a variety of direct insurance policies and a captive insurance company that are reinsured for risks above certain deductibles and retentions. All of our insurance policies and programs are subject to high deductibles and retentions; as such, we are, in effect, self-insured for substantially all of our typical claims. We hire an actuary to determine any liabilities for unpaid claims and associated expenses for the three major lines of coverage (workers’ compensation, general liability and auto liability). The determination of these claims and expenses and the appropriateness of the estimated liability are reviewed and updated quarterly. However, insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to the many relevant factors, the effects of which are often unknown, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents that have occurred but are not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. Our accruals are based on known facts, historical trends (both internal trends and industry averages) and our reasonable estimate of our future expenses. We believe our accruals are adequate. However, our risk management strategies and techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. If any of the variety of instruments, processes or strategies we use to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses that are not covered by our insurance policies or that exceed our accruals or coverage limits. Additionally, we typically are contractually required to provide proof of insurance for projects on which we work. Historically, insurance market conditions become more difficult for insurance consumers during periods when insurance companies suffer significant investment losses as well as casualty losses. Consequently, it is possible that insurance markets will become more expensive and restrictive. Also, our prior casualty loss history might adversely affect our ability to procure insurance within commercially reasonable ranges. As such, we may not be able to maintain commercially reasonable levels of insurance coverage in the future, which could preclude our ability to work on many projects and increase our overall risk exposure. Our insurance providers are under no commitment to renew our existing insurance policies in the future; therefore, our ability to obtain necessary levels or kinds of insurance coverage is subject to market forces outside our control. If we were unable to obtain necessary levels of insurance, it is likely we would be unable to compete for or work on most projects. Failure to remain in compliance with covenants under our credit agreement, service our indebtedness, or fund our other liquidity needs could adversely impact our business. Our credit agreement and related restrictive and financial covenants are more fully described in Note 9 of “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.” Our failure to comply with any of these covenants under the credit agreement, or to pay principal, interest or other amounts when due thereunder, would constitute an event of default under the credit agreement. Default under our credit agreement could result in (1) us no longer being entitled to borrow under the agreement; (2) termination of the agreement; (3) acceleration of the maturity of outstanding indebtedness under the agreement; and/or (4) foreclosure on any collateral securing the obligations under the agreement. If we are unable to service our debt obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we could be forced to curtail our operations, reorganize our capital structure (including through bankruptcy proceedings) or liquidate some or all of our assets in a manner that could cause holders of our securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investment in us. In addition, in July 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for calculation of LIBOR after 2021. At this time, it is not clear that LIBOR will cease to exist, and if so, what alternative benchmark rate will replace LIBOR, though it is likely that the lenders under our credit agreement would select as an alternative benchmark rate the forward-looking term rate based on the secured overnight financing rate published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Under the Eurodollar Rate Loan Option under the Facility (defined below), the interest rate is determined based on the one- to six-month Eurodollar Rate, which rate corresponds very closely to rates described in various general business media sources as LIBOR. Any new benchmark rate will likely not exactly replicate LIBOR, which could impact the determination of interest rates under the Eurodollar Rate Loan Option. Our inability to properly utilize our workforce could have a negative impact on our profitability. The extent to which we utilize our workforce affects our profitability. Underutilizing our workforce could result in lower gross margins and, consequently, a decrease in short-term profitability. On the other hand, overutilization of our 17 Table of Contents workforce could negatively impact safety, employee satisfaction and project execution, leading to a potential decline in future project awards. The utilization of our workforce is impacted by numerous factors, including: If we do not effectively manage the size and cost of our operations, our existing infrastructure may become either strained or over-burdensome, and we may be unable to increase revenue growth. The growth that we have experienced in the past, and that we may experience in the future, may provide challenges to our organization, requiring us to expand our personnel and our operations. Future growth may strain our infrastructure, operations and other managerial and operating resources. We have also experienced in the past severe constriction in the markets in which we operate and, as a result, in our operating requirements. Failing to maintain the appropriate cost structure during a particular economic cycle may result in our incurring costs that affect our profitability. If our business resources become strained or over-burdensome, our earnings may be adversely affected, and we may be unable to increase revenue growth. Further, we may undertake contractual commitments that exceed our labor, managerial or other resources, which could also adversely affect our earnings and our ability to increase revenue growth. Increases and uncertainty in our health insurance costs could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. The costs of employee health insurance have been increasing in recent years due to rising health care costs, legislative changes, and general economic conditions. Additionally, we may incur additional costs as a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Affordable Care Act”) that was signed into law in March 2010. Future legislation could also have an impact on our business. The status of the Affordable Care Act, any amendment, repeal or replacement thereof, is currently uncertain. For example, in December 2019, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit struck down a central provision of the Affordable Care Act, ruling that the requirement that people have health insurance was unconstitutional, sending the case back to a federal district judge in Texas to determine which of the law’s many parts could survive without the mandate. On March 2, 2020, the United States Supreme Court granted certiorari to review this case, which is expected to be decided by mid-2021. Because of the continued uncertainty about the implementation of the Affordable Care Act, including the potential for further legal challenges or repeal of that legislation, it is unclear what the impact of the Affordable Care Act, its amendment thereof, or its potential repeal or replacement will have on our financial position or results of operations. Regulatory and Legal Risks Actual and potential claims, lawsuits and proceedings could ultimately reduce our profitability and liquidity and weaken our financial condition. We are likely to continue to be named as a defendant in legal proceedings claiming damages from us in connection with the operation of our business. These actions and proceedings may involve claims for, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract or property damage. In addition, we may be subject to class action lawsuits involving allegations of violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour laws. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such actions or proceedings. We also are, and are likely to continue to be, from time to time a plaintiff in legal proceedings against customers, in which we seek to recover payment of contractual amounts we are owed as well as claims for increased costs we incur. When appropriate, we establish provisions against possible exposures, and we adjust these provisions from time to time according to ongoing exposure. If our assumptions and estimates related to these exposures prove to be inadequate or inaccurate, we could experience a reduction in our profitability and liquidity and a weakening of our financial condition. In addition, claims, lawsuits and proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. 18 Table of Contents We typically warrant the services we provide, guaranteeing the work performed against defects in workmanship and the material we supply. Historically, warranty claims have not been material as our customers evaluate much of the work we perform for defects shortly after work is completed. However, if warranty claims occur, we could be required to repair or replace warrantied items at our cost. In addition, our customers may elect to repair or replace the warrantied item by using the services of another provider and require us to pay for the cost of the repair or replacement. Costs incurred as a result of warranty claims could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Misconduct by our employees, subcontractors or partners or our overall failure to comply with laws or regulations could harm our reputation, damage our relationships with customers, reduce our revenue and profits, and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. Misconduct, fraud, non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or other improper activities by one or more of our employees, directors, executive officers, subcontractors or partners could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Examples of such misconduct include employee or subcontractor theft, personal misconduct and failure to comply with safety standards, including regulatory, company or site-specific COVID-19 safety protocols, laws and regulations, customer requirements, environmental laws and any other applicable laws or regulations. While we take precautions to prevent and detect these activities, such precautions may not be effective and are subject to inherent limitations, including human error and fraud. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or acts of misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, harm our reputation, lead to loss of the services of employees or members of management, damage our relationships with customers, reduce our revenue and profits and subject us to criminal and civil enforcement actions. We have subsidiary operations through the United States and are exposed to multiple state and local regulations, as well as federal laws and requirements applicable to government contractors. Changes in law, regulations or requirements, or a material failure of any of our subsidiaries or us to comply with any of them, could increase our costs and have other negative impacts on our business. Our 139 locations are located in 27 states, which exposes us to a variety of different state and local laws and regulations, particularly those pertaining to contractor licensing requirements. These laws and regulations govern many aspects of our business, and there are often different standards and requirements in different locations. In addition, our subsidiaries that perform work for federal government entities are subject to additional federal laws and regulatory and contractual requirements. Changes in any of these laws, or any of our subsidiaries’ material failure to comply with them, can adversely impact our operations by, among other things, increasing costs, distracting management’s time and attention from other items, and harming our reputation. As government contractors, our subsidiaries are subject to a number of rules and regulations, and their contracts with government entities are subject to audit. Violations of the applicable rules and regulations could result in a subsidiary being barred from future government contracts. Government contractors must comply with many regulations and other requirements that relate to the award, administration and performance of government contracts. A violation of these laws and regulations could result in imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of a government contract or debarment from bidding on government contracts in the future. Further, despite our decentralized nature, a violation at one of our locations could impact other locations’ ability to bid on and perform government contracts. Additionally, because of our decentralized nature, we face risks in maintaining compliance with all local, state and federal government contracting requirements. Because 5.7% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 was attributable to projects in the government sector, prohibitions against bidding on future government contracts could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Past and future environmental, safety and health regulations could impose significant additional costs on us that could reduce our profits. HVAC systems are subject to various environmental statutes and regulations, including the Clean Air Act and those regulating the production, servicing and disposal of certain ozone-depleting refrigerants used in HVAC systems. There can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change significantly in the future. Various local, state and federal laws and regulations impose licensing standards on technicians who install and service HVAC systems. Additional laws, regulations and standards apply to contractors who perform work that is being funded by public money, particularly federal public funding. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could 19 Table of Contents subject us to substantial fines, the loss of our licenses or potentially debarment from future publicly funded work. It is impossible to predict the full nature and effect of judicial, legislative or regulatory developments relating to health and safety regulations and environmental protection regulations applicable to our operations. Additionally, industries in which our customers or potential customers operate may be affected by new or changing environmental, safety, health or other regulatory requirements, leading to decreased demand for our services and potentially impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to grow. Unsatisfactory safety performance may subject us to penalties, affect customer relationships, result in higher operating costs, negatively impact employee morale and result in higher employee turnover. Our projects are conducted at a variety of sites including construction sites and industrial facilities. Each location is subject to numerous safety risks, including electrocutions, fires, explosions, mechanical failures, weather-related incidents, transportation accidents, damage to equipment and, with respect to indoor sites, an increased risk of COVID-19 outbreaks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and other consequential damages and could lead to suspension of operations, large damage claims and, in extreme cases, criminal liability. While we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions to minimize safety risks, we have experienced serious accidents, including fatalities, in the past and may experience additional accidents in the future. Serious accidents may subject us to penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. Claims for damages to property or persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in significant costs and liabilities, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Poor safety performance could also jeopardize our relationships with our customers, negatively impact employee morale and harm our reputation. Changes in United States trade policy, including the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences, may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. ​ As a result of policy changes or shifting proposals by the U.S. government, there may be greater restrictions and economic disincentives on international trade. For example, the U.S. government has pursued a new approach to trade policy, including renegotiating or terminating certain existing bilateral or multi-lateral trade agreements. It has also imposed tariffs on certain foreign goods and has raised the possibility of imposing significant, additional tariff increases or expanding the tariffs to capture other types of goods. These tariffs and other changes in U.S. trade policy have in the past and could continue to trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, and certain foreign governments have instituted or are considering imposing retaliatory measures on certain U.S. goods. We, our suppliers and our customers import certain raw materials, components and other products from foreign suppliers. As such, the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions, the occurrence of a trade war, or other governmental action related to tariffs or trade agreements or policies has the potential to adversely impact demand for our products, our costs, our customers, our suppliers, and the United States economy, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ​ Tax matters, including changes in corporate tax laws and disagreements with taxing authorities, could impact our results of operations and financial condition. We conduct business across the United States and file income taxes in various tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be affected by many factors, some of which are outside of our control, including changes in tax laws and regulations in the various tax jurisdictions in which we file income taxes. For instance, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted into law in December 2017. While certain portions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act seem to have had a positive impact on the Company’s results of operations, the overall impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Furthermore, to the extent that certain of our customers are negatively affected by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and/or any uncertainty around its implementation or enforcement, they may reduce spending and defer, delay or cancel projects or contracts. Reduced government revenue resulting from changes to tax law may also lead to reduced government spending, which may negatively impact our government contracting business. It is also unknown if and to what extent various states will conform to the changes enacted by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. I ssues relating to tax audits or examinations and any related interest or penalties and uncertainty in obtaining deductions or credits claimed in various jurisdictions could also impact our effective tax rates. Our results of operations are reported based on our determination of the amount of taxes we owe in various tax jurisdictions. Significant judgment 20 Table of Contents is required in determining our provision for income taxes and our determination of tax liability is always subject to review or examination by tax authorities in applicable tax jurisdictions. An adverse outcome of such a review of examination could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Further, the results of tax examinations and audits could have a negative impact on our financial results and cash flows where the results differ from the liabilities recorded in our financial statements. Risks Related to Our Common Stock ​ Our common stock, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations are likely to continue in the future, and our stockholders may suffer losses. The market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control. A variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including the following: (i) the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K; (ii) a shortfall in operating revenue or net income from that expected by securities analysts and investors; (iii) quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; (iv) changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or that of our competitors or companies in our industry generally; (v) general conditions in our customers’ industries, including as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; (vi) general conditions in the securities markets; (vii) our announcements of significant contracts, milestones and acquisitions; (viii) our relationship with other companies; (ix) our investors’ view of the sectors and markets in which we operate; and (x) additions or departures of key personnel. Some companies that have volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to security class action suits filed against them. If a suit were to be filed against us, regardless of the outcome, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or otherwise, either by us, a member of management or a major stockholder, or the perception that these sales could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Our charter contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may inhibit or delay a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, one or more series of preferred stock having such preferences, powers and relative, participating, optional and other rights (including preferences over the common stock respecting dividends and distributions and voting rights) as the Board of Directors may determine. The issuance of this “blank-check” preferred stock could render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. Additionally, certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law or even certain provisions of our credit agreement may also discourage takeover attempts that have not been approved by the Board of Directors. General Risk Factors Failure or circumvention of our disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting could seriously harm our financial condition, results of operations, and our business. We plan to continue to maintain and strengthen internal controls and procedures to enhance the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and internal controls over financial reporting. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure of our disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting could harm our financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Force majeure events, including natural disasters, outbreaks of infectious disease, such as COVID-19, and terrorists’ actions, could negatively impact our business, which may affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Force majeure or extraordinary events beyond the control of the contracting parties, such as natural and man-made disasters, as well as outbreaks of infectious disease ( e.g. , COVID-19) and terrorist actions, could negatively impact us. We typically negotiate contract language where we are granted certain relief from force majeure events in private client contracts and review and attempt to mitigate force majeure events in both public and private client contracts. We remain obligated to perform our services after most extraordinary events subject to relief that may be available to us pursuant to a force majeure clause. If we are not able to react quickly to force majeure events, our operations may be affected significantly, which would have a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity and could also negatively affect our reputation in the marketplace. Deliberate, malicious acts, including terrorism and sabotage, could damage our facilities, disrupt our operations or injure employees, contractors, customers or the public and result in liability to us. Intentional acts of destruction could damage or destroy our facilities, reducing our operational production capacity and potentially requiring us to repair or replace our facilities at substantial cost. Additionally, employees, contractors and the public could suffer substantial physical injury from acts of terrorism for which we could be liable. Governmental authorities may also impose security or other requirements that could make our operations more difficult or costly. The consequences of any such actions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to assess and report on our internal controls each year. Findings of inadequate internal controls could reduce investor confidence in the reliability of our financial information. As directed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC adopted rules generally requiring public companies, including us, to include in their annual reports on Form 10-K a report of management that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements must report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and records of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. We may discover in the future that we have deficiencies in the design and operation of our internal controls. If any of the deficiencies in our internal control, either by itself or in combination with other deficiencies, becomes a “material weakness”, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis, we may be unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. In such event, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may significantly harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. In addition, the failure to maintain effective internal controls could also result in unauthorized transactions. Rising inflation and/or interest rates could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in interest rates, could have a negative impact on our business. If our costs were to become subject to significant inflationary pressures or interest rate increases, we may not be able to fully offset such higher costs through price increases. Our inability or failure to do so could harm our financial position and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Changes in accounting rules and regulations could adversely affect our financial results. Accounting rules and regulations are subject to review and interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”), the SEC and various other governing bodies. A change in U.S. GAAP could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. Additionally, the adoption of new or revised accounting principles could require that we make significant changes to our systems, processes and controls. We cannot predict the effect of future changes to accounting principles, which could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and/or our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.