— Risks Related to Our Business — There are significant risks associated with our construction projects. " Singapore In April 2019, MBS entered into the Second Development Agreement with the STB pursuant to which MBS has agreed to construct a development, which will include a hotel tower with approximately 1,000 rooms and suites, a rooftop attraction, convention and meeting facilities and a state-of-the-art live entertainment arena with approximately 15,000 seats. The Second Development Agreement provides for a total project cost of approximately SGD 4.5 billion (approximately $3.3 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2021), which investment must be completed within eight years from the effective date of the agreement. The amount of the total project cost will be finalized as we complete design and development and begin construction. We amended our 2012 Singapore Credit Facility to provide for the financing of the development and construction costs, fees and other expenses related to the MBS Expansion Project pursuant to the Second Development Agreement. On September 7, 2021, we amended the 2012 Singapore Credit Facility, which, among other things, extended the deadline for delivering the construction cost estimate and the construction schedule for the MBS Expansion Project to March 31, 2022. We are in the process of reviewing the budget and timing of the MBS expansion based on the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic and other factors. If we do not meet the March 31, 2022 deadline, we will not be permitted to make further draws on the Singapore Delayed Draw Term Facility until these items are delivered to lenders. Other We continue to evaluate additional development projects in each of our markets and pursue new development opportunities globally. Regulation and Licensing Macao Concession and Our Subconcession In June 2002, the Macao government granted one of three concessions to operate casinos in Macao to Galaxy. During December 2002, we entered into a subconcession agreement with Galaxy, which was approved by the Macao 14 Table of Contents government. The subconcession agreement allows us to develop and operate certain casino projects in Macao, including Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao, The Plaza Macao and the Four Seasons Macao, The Londoner Macao and The Parisian Macao, separately from Galaxy. Under the subconcession agreement, we are obligated to operate casino games of chance or games of other forms in Macao. We were also obligated to develop and open The Venetian Macao and a convention center by December 2007, and we were required to invest, or cause to be invested, at least 4.4 billion patacas (approximately $548 million at exchange rates in effect at the time of the transaction) in various development projects in Macao by June 2009, which obligations we have fulfilled. If the Galaxy concession is terminated for any reason, our subconcession will remain in effect. The subconcession may be terminated by agreement between Galaxy and us. Galaxy is not entitled to terminate the subconcession unilaterally; however, the Macao government, after consultation with Galaxy, may terminate the subconcession under certain circumstances. Galaxy has developed, and may continue to develop, hotel and casino projects separately from us. We are subject to licensing and control under applicable Macao law and are required to be licensed by the Macao gaming authorities to operate a casino. We must pay periodic and regular fees and taxes, and our gaming license is not transferable. We must periodically submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Macao gaming authorities and furnish any other information the Macao gaming authorities may require. No person may acquire any rights over the shares or assets of Venetian Macau Limited ("VML"), SCL's wholly owned subsidiary, without first obtaining the approval of the Macao gaming authorities. Similarly, no person may enter into possession of its premises or operate them through a management agreement or any other contract or through step in rights without first obtaining the approval of, and receiving a license from, the Macao gaming authorities. The transfer or creation of encumbrances over ownership of shares representing the share capital of VML or other rights relating to such shares, and any act involving the granting of voting rights or other stockholders' rights to persons other than the original owners, would require the approval of the Macao government and the subsequent report of such acts and transactions to the Macao gaming authorities. Our subconcession agreement requires, among other things: (i) approval of the Macao government for transfers of shares in VML, or of any rights over or inherent to such shares, including the grant of voting rights or other stockholder's rights to persons other than the original owners, as well as for the creation of any charge, lien or encumbrance on such shares; (ii) approval of the Macao government for transfers of shares, or of any rights over such shares, in any of our direct or indirect stockholders, provided that such shares or rights are directly or indirectly equivalent to an amount that is equal to or higher than 5% of VML's share capital; and (iii) that the Macao government be given notice of the creation of any encumbrance or the grant of voting rights or other stockholder's rights to persons other than the original owners on shares in any of the direct or indirect stockholders in VML, provided that such shares or rights are equivalent to an amount that is equal to or higher than 5% of VML's share capital. The requirements in provisions (ii) and (iii) above will not apply, however, to securities listed as tradable on a stock exchange. The Macao gaming authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to, or material involvement with, us to determine whether our suitability and/or financial capacity is affected by this individual. LVSC and SCL shareholders with 5% or more of the share capital, directors and some of our key employees must apply for and undergo a finding of suitability process and maintain due qualification during the subconcession term, and accept the persistent and long-term inspection and supervision exercised by the Macao government. VML is required to notify the Macao government immediately should VML become aware of any fact that may be material to the appropriate qualification of any shareholder who owns 5% or more of the share capital, or any officer, director or key employee. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Macao gaming authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the Macao gaming authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in corporate position. If the Macao gaming authorities were to find one of our officers, directors or key employees unsuitable for licensing, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. In addition, the Macao gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability after being ordered to do so by the Macao gaming authorities may be found unsuitable. Any stockholder found unsuitable who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common stock of a company incorporated in Macao and registered with the Macao 15 Table of Contents Companies and Moveable Assets Registrar (a "Macao registered corporation") beyond the period of time prescribed by the Macao gaming authorities may lose their rights to the shares. We will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us, we: • pay that person any dividend or interest upon its shares; • allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through shares held by that person; • pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or • fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require that unsuitable person to relinquish its shares. The Macao gaming authorities also have the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation holding a gaming license. In addition, the Macao gaming authorities require prior approval for the creation of liens and encumbrances over VML's assets and restrictions on stock in connection with any financing. The Macao gaming authorities must give their prior approval to changes in control of VML through a merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement or any act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control. Entities seeking to acquire control of a Macao registered corporation must satisfy the Macao gaming authorities concerning a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control. The Macao gaming authorities may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process of the transaction. The Macao gaming authorities may consider some management opposition to corporate acquisitions, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Macao gaming licensees, and the Macao registered corporations affiliated with such operations, to be injurious to stable and productive corporate gaming. The subconcession agreement requires the Macao gaming authorities' prior approval of any recapitalization plan proposed by VML's Board of Directors. The Chief Executive of Macao could also require VML to increase its share capital if he deemed it necessary. The Macao government also has the right, after consultation with Galaxy, to unilaterally terminate the subconcession agreement at any time upon the occurrence of specified events of default. In addition, we must comply with various covenants and other provisions under the subconcession. The subconcession agreement also allows the Macao government to request various changes in the plans and specifications of our Macao properties and to make various other decisions and determinations that may be binding on us. For example, the Macao government has the right to require that we contribute additional capital to our Macao subsidiaries or that we provide certain deposits or other guarantees of performance in any amount determined by the Macao government to be necessary. VML is limited in its ability to raise additional capital by the need to first obtain the approval of the Macao gaming and governmental authorities before raising certain debt or equity. If our subconcession is terminated in the event of a default, the casinos and gaming-related equipment would be automatically transferred to the Macao government without compensation to us and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. In many of these instances, the subconcession agreement does not provide a specific cure period within which any such events may be cured and, instead, we would rely on consultations and negotiations with the Macao government to give us an opportunity to remedy any such default. The casinos and gaming areas located in the Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao, The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Macao, The Londoner Macao and The Parisian Macao are being operated under our subconcession agreement. This subconcession excludes the following gaming activities: mutual bets, lotteries, raffles, interactive gaming and games of chance or other gaming, betting or gambling activities on ships or planes. Our subconcession is exclusively governed by Macao law. We are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Macao in case of any dispute or conflict relating to our subconcession. Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022. If our subconcession is not extended or renewed, VML may be prohibited from conducting gaming operations in Macao, and we could cease to generate revenues from our gaming operations when our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022. In addition, all of VML's 16 Table of Contents casino premises and gaming-related equipment could be automatically transferred to the Macao government without any compensation to us. On January 18, 2022, the Macao Legislative Assembly published a draft bill entitled Amendment to Law No. 16/2001 to amend Macao’s gaming Law 16/2002 (the “Gaming Law”). Certain changes to the Gaming Law set out in the draft bill include a reduction in the term of future gaming concessions to ten (10) years; authorization of up to six (6) gaming concession contracts; an increase in the minimum capital contribution of concessionaires to 5 billion patacas (approximately $622 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2021); and a prohibition of revenue sharing arrangements between gaming promoters and concessionaires. We are actively monitoring developments with respect to the Macao government’s Gaming Law amendment and concession renewal process and we continue to believe we will be successful in extending the term of our subconcession and/or obtaining a new gaming concession when our current subconcession expires; however, it is possible the Macao government could further change or interpret the associated gaming laws in a manner that could negatively impact us. Under our subconcession, we are obligated to pay to the Macao government an annual premium with a fixed portion and a variable portion based on the number and type of gaming tables employed and gaming machines operated by us. The fixed portion of the premium is equal to 30 million patacas (approximately $4 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2021). The variable portion is equal to 300,000 patacas per gaming table reserved exclusively for certain kinds of games or players, 150,000 patacas per gaming table not so reserved and 1,000 patacas per electrical or mechanical gaming machine, including slot machines (approximately $37,344, $18,672 and $124, respectively, at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2021), subject to a minimum of 45 million patacas (approximately $6 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2021). We also have to pay a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenues and applicable withholding taxes. We must also contribute 4% of our gross gaming revenue to utilities designated by the Macao government, a portion of which must be used for promotion of tourism in Macao. This percentage may be subject to change in the future. Currently, the gaming tax in Macao is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue; however, unlike Nevada, gross gaming revenue does not include deductions for credit losses. As a result, if we extend credit to our customers in Macao and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we have to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers even though we were unable to collect on the related receivables. If the laws are not changed, our business in Macao may not be able to realize the full benefits of extending credit to our customers. In August 2018, we received an additional exemption from Macao's corporate income tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games of chance for the period of January 1, 2019 through June 26, 2022, the date our subconcession agreement expires. Additionally, we entered into an agreement with the Macao government in April 2019, effective through June 26, 2022, providing for payments as a substitution for a 12% tax otherwise due from VML shareholders on dividend distributions paid from VML gaming profits, namely a payment of 38 million patacas (approximately $5 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2021) for each of the years 2021, 2020 and 2019, each payment to be made on or before January 31 of the following year, and a payment of 18 million patacas (approximately $2 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2021) for the period between January 1, 2022 through June 26, 2022, to be paid on or before July 26, 2022. There is no assurance either of these tax arrangements will be extended beyond their expiration dates. Development Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board On August 23, 2006, MBS entered into a development agreement, as amended by a supplementary agreement on December 11, 2009 (the "Development Agreement"), with the STB to design, develop, construct and operate the Marina Bay Sands. The Development Agreement includes a concession for MBS to own and operate a casino within the Integrated Resort. In addition to the casino, the Integrated Resort includes, among other amenities, a hotel, a retail complex, a convention center and meeting room complex, theaters, restaurants and an art/science museum. MBS is one of two companies awarded a concession to operate a casino in Singapore. Under the request for proposals to develop an integrated resort at Marina Bay, Singapore, during an initial ten-year exclusive period (the "Exclusivity Period") only two licensees were granted the right to operate a casino in Singapore, which expired on February 28, 2017. In connection with entering into the Development Agreement, MBS entered into a 60-year lease 17 Table of Contents with the STB for the parcels underlying the project site and entered into an agreement with the Land Transport Authority of Singapore for the provision of necessary infrastructure for rapid transit systems and road works within and/or outside the project site. During the Exclusivity Period, the Company, which is currently the 100% indirect shareholder of MBS, was required to be the single largest entity with direct or indirect controlling interest of at least 20% in MBS, unless otherwise approved by the CRA. The term of the casino concession provided under the Development Agreement is for 30 years commencing from the date the Development Agreement was entered into, or August 23, 2006. In order to renew the casino concession, MBS must give notice to the STB and other relevant authorities in Singapore at least five years before its expiration in August 2036. The Singapore government may terminate the casino concession prior to its expiration in order to serve the best interests of the public, in which event fair compensation will be paid to MBS. In April 2019, MBS and the STB entered into the Second Development Agreement pursuant to which MBS has agreed to construct a second large-scale development, the MBS Expansion Project, located adjacent to Marina Bay Sands, comprising of additional MICE facilities, a hotel tower with approximately 1,000 rooms and suites, a rooftop attraction, convention and meeting facilities and a state-of-the-art live entertainment arena with approximately 15,000 seats. The Second Development Agreement provides for a total project cost of approximately SGD 4.5 billion (approximately $3.3 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2021). The amount of the total project cost will be finalized as we complete design and development and begin construction . In connection with the Second Development Agreement, MBS entered into a lease with the STB for the parcels of land underlying the project (the "Land"). In April 2019 and in connection with the lease, MBS provided various governmental agencies in Singapore the required premiums, deposits, stamp duty, goods and services tax and other fees in an aggregate amount of approximately SGD 1.54 billion (approximately $1.14 billion at exchange rates in effect at the time of the transaction). We amended our 2012 Singapore Credit Facility to provide for the financing of the development and construction costs, fees and other expenses related to the MBS Expansion Project pursuant to the Development Agreement. On June 18, 2020, MBS entered into an amendment letter to the 2012 Singapore Credit Facility, which among other things, extends to June 30, 2021, the deadline for delivering the construction costs estimate and the construction schedule for the MBS Expansion Project. On September 7, 2021, we amended the 2012 Singapore Credit Facility, which further extended this deadline to March 31, 2022. We are in the process of reviewing the budget and timing of the MBS expansion based on the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic and other factors. The Development Agreement contains, among other things, restrictions limiting the use of the leased land to the development and operation of the project, requirements that MBS obtain prior approval from the STB in order to subdivide the hotel and retail components of the project, prohibitions on any such subdivision during the Exclusivity Period and limitations on MBS' ability to assign the lease or sub-lease any portion of the land during the Exclusivity Period. In addition, the Development Agreement contains events of default, including, among other things, the failure of MBS to perform its obligations under the Development Agreement and events of bankruptcy or dissolution. Employees whose job duties relate to the operations of the casino are required to be licensed by the relevant authorities in Singapore. MBS also must comply with comprehensive internal control standards or regulations concerning advertising; branch office operations; the location, floor plans and layout of the casino; casino operations including casino-related financial transactions and patron disputes, issuance of credit and collection of debt, relationships with and permitted payments to gaming promoters; security and surveillance; casino access by Singaporeans and non-Singaporeans; compliance functions and the prevention of money laundering; periodic standard and other reports to the CRA; and those relating to social controls including the exclusion of certain persons from the casino. There is a goods and services tax of 7% imposed on gross gaming revenue and a casino tax of 15% imposed on the gross gaming revenue from the casino after reduction for the amount of goods and services tax, except in the case of gaming by premium players, in which case a casino tax of 5% is imposed on the gross gaming revenue generated from such players after reduction for the amount of the goods and services tax. The current casino tax rates are 5% for premium players and 15% for mass players. Beginning March 1, 2022, the current casino tax rates of 5% for premium players and 15% for mass players will increase to 8% and 18% on gross gaming revenue up to SGD 2.4 billion and SGD 3.1 billion (approximately $1.8 billion and $2.3 billion at exchange rates in effect on 18 Table of Contents December 31, 2021), respectively. On gross gaming revenue above the stated thresholds, the casino tax rate for premium players will be 12% and for mass players will be 22%. The provision for bad debts arising from the extension of credit granted to gaming patrons is not deductible against gross gaming revenue when calculating the casino tax, but is deductible for the purposes of calculating the goods and services tax (subject to the prevailing law). MBS is permitted to extend casino credit to persons who are not Singapore citizens or permanent residents, but is not permitted to extend casino credit to Singapore citizens or permanent residents except to premium players. The key constraint imposed on the casino under the Development Agreement is the total size of the gaming area, which must not be more than 15,000 square meters (approximately 161,000 square feet). The following are not counted towards the gaming area: back of house facilities, reception, restrooms, food and beverage areas, retail shops, stairs, escalators and lift lobbies leading to the gaming area, aesthetic and decorative displays, performance areas and major aisles. The casino located within Marina Bay Sands may not have more than 2,500 gaming machines, but there is no limit on the number of tables for casino games permitted in the casino. Under the Casino Control Act, as amended (the "Singapore Act"), a casino operator may be subject to a financial penalty, for each ground of disciplinary action which amounts to a serious breach, of a sum not exceeding 10% of the annual gross gaming revenue (as defined in the Singapore Act) of the casino operator for the financial year immediately preceding the date the financial penalty is imposed. The Singapore Act also requires future applicants and/or renewals for a casino license to be a suitable person to develop, maintain and promote the Integrated Resort as a compelling tourist destination that meets prevailing market demand and industry standards and contributes to the tourism industry in Singapore. The Singapore government has established an evaluation panel that will assess applicants and report to the CRA on this aspect of the casino licensing requirements. Our casino license, which has a three-year term, is set to expire in April 2022. We have filed a renewal application and believe we meet the renewal requirements as determined by the CRA. The Second Development Agreement contains provisions relating to the construction of the MBS Expansion Project and associated deadlines for completion, levels of insurance and limitations on MBS’ ability to assign the lease or sub-let any portion of the Land. In addition, the Second Development Agreement contains events of default, including, among other things, the failure of MBS to perform its obligations under the Second Development Agreement. The Second Development Agreement also contains, among other things, restrictions limiting the use of the Land to the development and operation of the MBS Expansion Project and requirements that MBS obtain the prior approval of the STB in order to subdivide the Land or any building thereon, which approval, if given, will be subject to such terms and conditions as may be determined by the STB. The Second Development Agreement makes provision for certain benefits and entitlements conferred on MBS on specified terms and conditions. Among these, upon the achievement of certain milestones, MBS will be entitled to make available an additional 1,000 gaming machines over and above its existing 2,500 gaming machines. On October 7, 2019, MBS was granted entitlement to make available 500 of these additional 1,000 gaming machines. In addition, under the Second Development Agreement, MBS is granted approval for the change of use of the area comprising the whole of the 55th floor of MBS’ hotel tower 1, or such other areas as may be agreed within hotel tower 1, to be developed and used as part of MBS’ casino; and MBS is granted an option to purchase an additional 2,000 square meters of casino gaming area at a price to be determined by the relevant Singapore government authority upon written request by MBS to exercise the option. In addition, the Second Development Agreement contemplates that for a period of not less than 10 years commencing no sooner than March 1, 2022, the rate of casino tax applicable to MBS will not exceed specified tiered rates; there shall not be more than two casino licenses in force under the Casino Control Act at any time prior to January 1, 2031; and for a period of five years from the date of the Second Development Agreement, the entry levy payable by a Singapore citizen or permanent resident for entry into the casino will not exceed SGD 150 for a 24-hour period and SGD 3,000 for a 12-month period. The Second Development Agreement also provides for MBS to be entitled to compensation by STB for any losses or damages suffered under certain conditions and events related to the above-described benefits and entitlements. The Second Development Agreement further provides MBS must maintain compliance with the material terms of the Second Development Agreement to obtain the above-described benefits and entitlements. 19 Table of Contents State of Nevada The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the State of Nevada are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Nevada Act") and various local regulations. Our gaming operations are also subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission (the "Nevada Commission"), the Nevada Gaming Control Board (the "Nevada Board") and the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board (the "CCLGLB" and together with the Nevada Commission and the Nevada Board, the "Nevada Gaming Authorities"). The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada Gaming Authorities are based upon declarations of public policy that are concerned with, among other things: • the prevention of unsavory or unsuitable persons from having a direct or indirect involvement with gaming at any time or in any capacity; • the establishment and maintenance of responsible accounting practices and procedures; • the maintenance of effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding of assets and revenues, providing reliable record-keeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the Nevada Gaming Authorities; • the prevention of cheating and fraudulent practices; and • the establishment of a source of state and local revenues through taxation and licensing fees. Any change in such laws, regulations and procedures could have an adverse effect on our Las Vegas operations. Las Vegas Sands, LLC ("LVSLLC") is licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities to operate the resort hotel. The gaming license requires the periodic payment of fees and taxes and is not transferable. LVSLLC is also registered as an intermediary company of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC ("VCR"). VCR is licensed as a manufacturer and distributor of gaming devices and as a key employee of LVSLLC. LVSLLC and VCR are collectively referred to as the "licensed subsidiaries." LVSC is registered with the Nevada Commission as a publicly traded corporation (the "registered corporation"). As such, we must periodically submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and furnish any other information the Nevada Gaming Authorities may require. No person may become a stockholder of, or receive any percentage of the profits from, the licensed subsidiaries without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Additionally, the CCLGLB has taken the position it has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming licensee. We, and the licensed subsidiaries, possess all state and local government registrations, approvals, permits and licenses required in order for us to engage in gaming activities at The Venetian Resort Las Vegas. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with us or the licensed subsidiaries to determine whether such individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. Officers, directors and certain key employees of the licensed subsidiaries must file applications with the Nevada Gaming Authorities and may be required to be licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Our officers, directors and key employees who are actively and directly involved in the gaming activities of the licensed subsidiaries may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for licensing or a finding of suitability for any cause they deem reasonable. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing; both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. The applicant for licensing or a finding of suitability, or the gaming licensee by whom the applicant is employed or for whom the applicant serves, must pay all the costs of the investigation. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada Gaming Authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the Nevada Gaming Authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position. If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or to have an inappropriate relationship with us or the licensed subsidiaries, we would have to sever all relationships 20 Table of Contents with such person. In addition, the Nevada Commission may require us or the licensed subsidiaries to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in Nevada. We, and the licensed subsidiaries, are required to submit periodic detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Commission. Substantially all of our and our licensed subsidiaries' material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to or approved by the Nevada Commission. If it were determined we or a licensed subsidiary violated the Nevada Act, the registration and gaming licenses we then hold could be limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked, subject to compliance with certain statutory and regulatory procedures. In addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the Nevada Act at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Further, a supervisor could be appointed by the Nevada Commission to operate the casinos, and, under certain circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor's appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the casinos) could be forfeited to the State of Nevada. Limitation, conditioning or suspension of any gaming registration or license or the appointment of a supervisor could (and revocation of any gaming license would) have a material adverse effect on our gaming operations. Any beneficial or record holder of our securities, regardless of the number of shares owned, may be required to file an application, be investigated, and have its suitability as a beneficial holder of our voting securities determined if the Nevada Commission has reason to believe such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. The applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting any such investigation. The Nevada Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of our voting securities to report the acquisition to the Chair of the Nevada Board. The Nevada Act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of our voting securities apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after the Chair of the Nevada Board mails the written notice requiring such filing. Under certain circumstances, an "institutional investor" as defined in the Nevada Act, which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of our voting securities "for investment purposes only" and meets other regulatory requirements (subject to certain additional holdings as a result of certain debt restructurings), may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability. If the beneficial holder of securities who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of beneficial owners. The applicant is required to pay all costs of investigation. Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within thirty days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Commission or the Chair of the Nevada Board may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable who holds, directly or indirectly, any ownership of the common stock of a registered corporation beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We are subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us or a licensed subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed subsidiaries: • pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities; • allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through securities held by that person; • pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or • fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish his or her voting securities including, if necessary, the purchase for cash at fair market value. Our charter documents include provisions intended to help us comply with these requirements. The Nevada Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt security of a registered corporation to file an application, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt security of such registered corporation. If the Nevada Commission determines a person is unsuitable to own such security, then pursuant to the 21 Table of Contents Nevada Act, the registered corporation can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals, if without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission, it: • pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest, or any distribution whatsoever; • recognizes any voting right by such unsuitable person in connection with such securities; or • pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form. We are required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada that may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and we are also required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. We are also required to render maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner. We cannot make a public offering of any securities without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission if the securities or the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for such purposes. On November 18, 2021, the Nevada Commission granted us prior approval to make public offerings for a period of three years, subject to certain conditions (the "shelf approval"). The shelf approval, however, may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the Chair of the Nevada Board. The shelf approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation, or approval by the Nevada Commission or the Nevada Board as to the investment merits of any securities offered under the shelf approval. Any representation to the contrary is unlawful. Changes in our control through a merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement, or any act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control, shall not occur without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission. Entities seeking to acquire control of a registered corporation must satisfy the Nevada Board and the Nevada Commission concerning a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control of such registered corporation. The Nevada Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process of the transaction. The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada gaming licensees, and registered corporations that are affiliated with those operations, may be injurious to stable and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Commission has established a regulatory scheme to ameliorate the potentially adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada's gaming industry and to further Nevada's policy to: • assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and their affiliates; • preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and • promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs. Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the Nevada Commission before we can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above the current market price thereof and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. The Nevada Act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by the Board of Directors in response to a tender offer made directly to our stockholders for the purposes of acquiring control of the registered corporation. License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending upon the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the State of Nevada and to Clark County, Nevada. Depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon: • a percentage of the gross revenues received; • the number of gaming devices operated; or • the number of table games operated. 22 Table of Contents The tax on gross gaming revenues received is generally 6.75% for the State of Nevada and 0.55% for Clark County. In addition, an excise tax is paid by us on charges for admission to any facility where certain forms of live entertainment are provided. VCR is also required to pay certain fees and taxes to the State of Nevada as a licensed manufacturer and distributor. We have deposited with the Nevada Board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $50,000 to pay the expenses of any investigation by the Nevada Board into our participation in such gaming operations outside of Nevada. The revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. We are also required to comply with certain reporting requirements on such operation and are subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if the foreign gaming operations knowingly violate any laws of any foreign jurisdiction pertaining to such foreign gaming operation, fail to conduct such foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations, engage in activities harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees, or employ a person in such foreign operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of personal unsuitability or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. The sale of alcoholic beverages by the licensed subsidiaries on the casino premises and at the Sands Expo Center is subject to licensing, control and regulation by the applicable local authorities. Our licensed subsidiaries have obtained the necessary liquor licenses to sell alcoholic beverages. All licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The agencies involved have full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any such licenses, and any such disciplinary action could (and revocation of such licenses would) have a material adverse effect on our operations. Agreements Relating to the Malls in Las Vegas Restated Reciprocal Easement, Use and Operating Agreement Our business plan calls for each of The Venetian Resort Las Vegas, Sands Expo Center and the Grand Canal Shoppes, though separately owned, to be integrally related components of one facility (the "LV Integrated Resort"). In establishing the terms for the integrated operation of these components, the Fourth Amended and Restated Reciprocal Easement, Use and Operating Agreement, dated as of February 29, 2008, by and among Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Grand Canal Shops II, LLC, Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, VCR and Palazzo Condo Tower, LLC (the "REA") sets forth agreements regarding, among other things, encroachments, easements, operating standards, maintenance requirements, insurance requirements, casualty and condemnation, joint marketing and the sharing of some facilities and related costs. Subject to applicable law, the REA binds all current and future owners of all portions of the LV Integrated Resort. Accordingly, subject to applicable law, the obligations in the REA will "run with the land" if any of the components change hands. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. — RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with evaluating the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Certain statements in "Risk Factors" are forward-looking statements. See "Item 7 — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Risks Related to Our Business The COVID-19 Pandemic has materially adversely affected the number of visitors to our facilities and disrupted our operations, and we expect this adverse impact to continue until the COVID-19 Pandemic is contained. We expect the impact of the disruptions resulting from the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic, including the extent of their adverse impact on our financial and operational results, will continue to be dictated by the length of time such disruptions continue. Although all our properties are currently open, we cannot predict whether future closures would be appropriate or could be mandated. Even once travel advisories and restrictions are modified or cease to be necessary, demand for Integrated Resorts may remain weak for a significant length of time and we cannot predict if or when the gaming and non-gaming activities of our properties will return to pre-outbreak levels of volume or pricing. In particular, future demand for Integrated Resorts may be negatively impacted by the adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate, including higher unemployment rates, declines in income levels and loss of personal wealth or reduced business spending for MICE resulting from the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic. In addition, we cannot predict the ultimate impact the COVID-19 Pandemic will have on our mall tenants in Macao and Singapore. Our businesses would also be impacted should the disruptions from the COVID-19 Pandemic impact our current construction projects—for example, we have experienced delays in construction projects in Singapore, as we had expected to commence construction on a new tower of Marina Bay Sands by April 2022 and do not expect to be able to commence construction on that timeline. There are certain limitations on our ability to mitigate the adverse financial impact of these matters, such as the fixed costs at our properties, the access to construction labor due to immigration restrictions or construction materials due to vendor supply chain delays. Government measures intended to address the COVID-19 Pandemic, such as mandatory quarantines, vaccine mandates and regular testing requirements, could also impact the availability of our employees or other workers or could lead to attrition of key employees or reduced willingness of customers to come to our properties. Any of these events may continue to disrupt our ability to staff our business adequately, could continue to generally disrupt our operations or construction projects, particularly in Singapore where we heavily rely on foreign personnel for construction projects and food and beverage services and other labor-intensive tasks. The COVID-19 Pandemic has had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Given the uncertainty around the extent and timing of the potential future spread or mitigation of the COVID-19 Pandemic and around the imposition or relaxation of protective measures, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact on our future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of downturns in the economy. Consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or corporate spending on conventions and business travel could be driven by many factors, such as: perceived or actual general economic conditions; fear of exposure to a widespread health epidemic, such as the COVID-19 Pandemic; any weaknesses in the job or housing market; credit market disruptions; high energy, fuel and food costs; the increased cost of travel; the potential for bank failures; perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth; fears of recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy; or fear of war, political instability, civil unrest or future acts of terrorism. These factors could 24 Table of Contents reduce consumer and corporate demand for the luxury amenities and leisure and business activities we offer, thus imposing additional limits on pricing and harming our operations. Natural or man-made disasters, an outbreak of highly infectious or contagious disease, political instability, civil unrest, terrorist activity or war could materially adversely affect the number of visitors to our facilities and disrupt our operations. So-called "Acts of God," such as typhoons and rainstorms, particularly in Macao, and other natural disasters, man-made disasters, outbreaks of highly infectious or contagious diseases, political instability, civil unrest, terrorist activity or war may result, and in the case of the COVID-19 Pandemic, have resulted, in decreases in travel to and from, and economic activity in, areas in which we operate, and may adversely affect, and the COVID-19 Pandemic has adversely affected, the number of visitors to our properties. We also face potential risks associated with the physical effects of climate change, which may include more frequent or severe storms, typhoons, flooding, rising sea levels and shortages of water. To the extent climate change causes additional changes in weather patterns, our properties along the coast in Macao could be subject to an increase in the number and severity of typhoons and rising sea levels causing damage to these properties, while Las Vegas could be subject to extreme drought conditions leading to water restrictions. Any of these events may disrupt our ability to staff our business adequately, could generally disrupt our operations, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we have insurance coverage with respect to some of these events, we cannot assure you any such coverage will provide any coverage or be sufficient to indemnify us fully against all direct and indirect costs, including any loss of business that could result from substantial damage to, or partial or complete destruction of, any of our properties. Our business is sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel. We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. Only a small amount of our business is and will be generated by local residents. Most of our customers travel to reach our Macao, Singapore and Las Vegas properties. Infectious diseases may severely disrupt, and in the case of the COVID-19 Pandemic, have severely disrupted, domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease in customer visits to Macao, Singapore and Las Vegas, including our properties. Regional political events, acts of terrorism or civil unrest, including those resulting in travelers perceiving areas as unstable or an unwillingness of governments to grant visas, regional conflicts or an outbreak of hostilities or war could have a similar effect on domestic and international travel. Management cannot predict the extent to which disruptions from these types of events in air or other forms of travel would have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to extensive regulations that govern our operations in any jurisdiction where we operate. We are required to obtain and maintain licenses from various jurisdictions in order to operate certain aspects of our business, and we are subject to extensive background investigations and suitability standards in our gaming business. We also will become subject to regulation in any other jurisdiction where we choose to operate in the future. There can be no assurance we will be able to obtain new licenses or renew any of our existing licenses, or if such licenses are obtained, such licenses will not be conditioned, suspended or revoked; and the loss, denial or non-renewal of any of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing” for further description of regulations that govern our operations. We are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Any violation of the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. U.S. governmental authorities have evidenced an increased focus on the gaming industry and compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations. For instance, we are subject to regulation under the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, commonly known as the "Bank Secrecy Act" ("BSA"), which, among other things, requires us to report to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ("FinCEN") certain currency transactions in excess of applicable thresholds and certain suspicious activities where we know, suspect or have reason to suspect such transactions involve funds from illegal activity or are intended to 25 Table of Contents violate federal law or regulations or are designed to evade reporting requirements or have no business or lawful purpose. In addition, under the BSA, we are subject to various other rules and regulations involving reporting, recordkeeping and retention. Our compliance with the BSA is subject to periodic audits by the U.S. Treasury Department, and we may be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines, if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. We are also subject to similar regulations in Singapore and Macao, as well as regulations set forth by the gaming authorities in the areas in which we operate. Any such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations, or any accusations of money laundering or regulatory investigations into possible money laundering activities, by any of our properties, employees or customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Certain local gaming laws apply to our gaming activities and associations in other jurisdictions where we operate or plan to operate. We are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning our current and proposed gaming activities and associations, including Macao, Singapore and other jurisdictions. We will also be subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if we fail to comply with Nevada gaming laws that govern our operations, as further described in “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing — State of Nevada.” The gaming authorities in other jurisdictions where we operate or plan to operate, including in Macao and Singapore, exercise similar powers for purposes of assessing suitability in relation to our activities in other gaming jurisdictions where we do business. Any gaming laws and regulations that apply to us could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted, and we may incur significant costs to comply, or may be unable to comply, with any new or modified gaming laws and regulations. We depend primarily on our properties in three markets for all of our cash flow, and because we are a parent company our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries. We will not have material operations other than our Macao and Singapore properties after the completion of the sale of our Las Vegas Operating Properties in the first quarter of 2022. As a result, we are primarily dependent upon our Asia properties for all of our cash. Given our operations will be conducted primarily at properties in Macao and Singapore and a large portion of our planned development is in Macao and Singapore, we are subject to greater risk than if we were more diversified. Additionally, because we are a parent company with limited business operations of our own, our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We conduct most of our business operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties. Our subsidiaries' payments to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations, which may be impacted by the factors described above. For example, due to the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic, we suspended our quarterly dividend program beginning in April 2020, and SCL suspended its dividend payments after paying its interim dividend for 2019 on February 21, 2020. In addition, our Macao and Singapore credit agreements, under certain circumstances, may limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us. We expect future debt instruments for the financing of future developments may contain similar restrictions. Our debt instruments, current debt service obligations and substantial indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations. Our current debt service obligations contain, or any future debt service obligations and instruments may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional debt, including providing guarantees or credit support; • incur liens securing indebtedness or other obligations; • dispose of certain assets; • make certain acquisitions; 26 Table of Contents • pay dividends or make distributions and make other restricted payments, such as purchasing equity interests, repurchasing junior indebtedness or making investments in third parties; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • engage in any new businesses; • issue preferred stock; and • enter into transactions with our stockholders and our affiliates. In addition, our Macao, Singapore and U.S. credit agreements contain various financial covenants. See "Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 10 — Long-Term Debt" for further description of these covenants. As of December 31, 2021, we had $14.80 billion of long-term debt outstanding, net of original issue discount and deferred offering costs (excluding those costs related to our revolving facilities). This indebtedness could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt service obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available for our operations and development projects; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • subject us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates. Subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our Singapore debt is secured by liens on substantially all of the assets of our Singapore operations. Our ability to timely refinance and replace our indebtedness in the future will depend upon general economic and credit market conditions, approval required by local government regulators, adequate liquidity in the global credit markets, the particular circumstances of the gaming industry, and prevalent regulations and our cash flow and operations, in each case as evaluated at the time of such potential refinancing or replacement. We have a principal amount of $74 million, $826 million, $1.89 billion, $3.34 billion and $3.50 billion in long-term debt maturing during the years ending December 31, 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025 and 2026, respectively. If we are unable to refinance or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to repay our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures and other investments, or reduce dividend payments. There is no assurance any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that would not be disadvantageous to us, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements. We may attempt to arrange additional financing to fund the remainder of our planned, and any future, development projects. If we are required to raise additional capital in the future, our access to and cost of financing will depend on, among other things, global economic conditions, conditions in the global financing markets, the availability of sufficient amounts of financing, our prospects and our credit ratings. If our credit ratings were to be downgraded, or general market conditions were to ascribe higher risk to our rating levels, our industry, or us, our access to capital and the cost of any debt financing would be further negatively impacted. In addition, the terms of future debt agreements could include more restrictive covenants, or require incremental collateral, which may further restrict our business operations or be unavailable due to our covenant restrictions then in effect. There is no guarantee that debt financings will be available in the future to fund our obligations, or that they will be available on terms consistent with our expectations. Our current debt service obligations contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, and our Macao, Singapore and U.S. credit agreements contain various financial covenants. SCL, MBS and LVSC have each entered into a waiver and 27 Table of Contents amendment request letter with their lenders to waive certain of their financial covenants through January 1, 2023 for SCL and December 31, 2022 for both MBS and LVSC. The LIBOR calculation method may change and LIBOR is expected to be phased out after 2021. Some of our credit facilities calculate interest on the outstanding principal balance using London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) or rates that are based, in part, based on LIBOR such as the Singapore Swap Offer Rates (“SOR"). On March 5, 2021, the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (the "FCA") announced the cessation dates for LIBOR, with all tenors being ceased by June 30, 2023. In response to the announced cessation of LIBOR, we have renegotiated one of our credit facilities that references LIBOR or SOR as a factor in determining the interest rate for a replacement reference rate and will likely renegotiate others in the future. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of any such changes or any other reforms to LIBOR or SOR that may be enacted in the United Kingdom or elsewhere. We are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We record transactions in the functional currencies of our reporting entities. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we translate revenues and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period, which subjects us to foreign currency translation risks. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the functional currencies of our foreign operations could have an adverse effect on our U.S. dollar financial results. We are a parent company whose primary source of cash is distributions from our subsidiaries. Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/SGD exchange rate, the U.S. dollar/Macao pataca exchange rate and/or the U.S. dollar/Hong Kong Dollar ("HKD") exchange rate could have a material adverse effect on the amount of dividends and distributions from our Singapore and Macao operations. We extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players. We conduct our gaming activities on a credit and cash basis. Any such credit we extend is unsecured. Table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than players who tend to wager lesser amounts. During the year ended December 31, 2021, approximately 14.5%, 7.9% and 53.9% of our table games drop at our Macao properties, Marina Bay Sands and our Las Vegas properties, respectively, was from credit-based wagering. We extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. These large receivables could have a significant impact on our results of operations if deemed uncollectible. While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a "marker," and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions around the world, including jurisdictions our gaming customers may come from, may determine, or have determined, enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from courts in the U.S. and elsewhere are not binding in the courts of many foreign nations. In particular, we expect our Macao operations will be able to enforce gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macao. To the extent our Macao gaming customers and gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, our Macao operations may not have access to a forum in which it will be possible to collect all gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and our Macao operations may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. Moreover, under applicable law, our Macao operations remain obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers. It is also possible our Singapore operations may not be able to collect gaming debts because, among other reasons, courts of certain jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts. To the extent our Singapore gaming customers' 28 Table of Contents assets are situated in such jurisdictions, our Singapore operations may not be able to take enforcement action against such assets to facilitate collection of gaming receivables. Even where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Win rates for our gaming operations depend on a variety of factors, some beyond our control, and the winnings of our gaming customers could exceed our casino winnings. The gaming industry is characterized by an element of chance. In addition to the element of chance, win rates are also affected by other factors, including players' skill and experience, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the spread of table limits, the volume of bets played and the amount of time played. Our gaming profits are mainly derived from the difference between our casino winnings and the casino winnings of our gaming customers. Since there is an inherent element of chance in the gaming industry, we do not have full control over our winnings or the winnings of our gaming customers. If the winnings of our gaming customers exceed our winnings, we may record a loss from our gaming operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face the risk of fraud and cheating. Our gaming customers may attempt or commit fraud or cheat in order to increase winnings. Acts of fraud or cheating could involve the use of counterfeit chips or other tactics, possibly in collusion with our employees. Internal acts of cheating could also be conducted by employees through collusion with dealers, surveillance staff, floor managers or other casino or gaming area staff. Failure to discover such acts or schemes in a timely manner could result in losses in our gaming operations. In addition, negative publicity related to such schemes could have an adverse effect on our reputation, potentially causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations face significant competition, which may increase in the future. The hotel, resort and casino businesses in Macao, Singapore and Las Vegas are highly competitive. Our Macao properties compete with numerous other casinos located within Macao. Additional Macao facilities announced by our competitors and the increasing capacity of hotel rooms in Macao could add to the competitive dynamic of the market. Our Macao and Singapore operations will also compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in Asia, including South Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Australia, Cambodia and elsewhere in the world, including Las Vegas, as well as online gaming and cruise ships that offer gaming. Our operations also face increased competition from new developments in Malaysia, Australia and South Korea. In addition, certain countries have legalized, and others may in the future legalize, casino gaming, including Japan, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. Our Las Vegas operations compete, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in Nevada, casinos located on Native American tribal lands, including those in California, as well as hotel/casinos and other resort facilities and vacation destinations elsewhere in the United States and around the world. Our Sands Expo Center provides recurring demand for mid-week room nights for business travelers who attend meetings, trade shows and conventions in Las Vegas and presently competes with other large convention centers, including convention centers in Las Vegas and other cities. To the extent these competitors are able to capture a substantially larger portion of the trade show and convention business, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The proliferation of gaming venues and gaming activities, such as online gaming, as well as renovations and expansions by our competitors, and their ability to attract customers away from our properties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our attempts to expand our business into new markets and new ventures, including through acquisitions or strategic transactions, may not be successful. We may opportunistically seek to expand our business through, among other things, expansion into new geographies or new ventures complementary to our current operations. These attempts to expand our business could increase the complexity of our business, require significant levels of investment and strain our management, 29 Table of Contents personnel, operations and systems. In addition, our attempts to expand into new geographies could pose additional challenges given our limited operational experience in other jurisdictions. In order to facilitate such expansion, we may engage in strategic and complementary acquisitions and other transactions or investments involving other integrated resort, hospitality or gaming brands, businesses, properties or other assets, either on our own or in partnership with others, which are subject to challenges and risks that could affect our business, including: our incurrence of significant transaction costs in connection with the pending transaction or investment, regardless of whether it is completed; the restrictions on and obligations with respect to our business that may exist in connection with the pending transaction or investment; fluctuations in our market value, including the depreciation in our market value if the pending transaction or investment is not completed or the failure of the transaction or investment, even if completed, to increase our market value; and failure to integrate acquired businesses successfully or achieve the anticipated benefits or synergies of the transaction. There can be no assurance that these business expansion efforts will develop as anticipated or that we will succeed, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investments, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with Our International Operations There are significant risks associated with our construction projects. We previously announced the renovation, expansion and rebranding of Sands Cotai Central into The Londoner Macao and the MBS Expansion Project in Singapore. These development projects and any other construction projects we undertake will entail significant risks. Construction activity requires us to obtain qualified contractors and subcontractors, the availability of which may be uncertain. Construction projects are subject to cost overruns and delays caused by events outside of our control or, in certain cases, our contractors' control, such as shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and unavailability of construction materials or equipment. Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite materials, licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from governmental or regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay, jeopardize, prevent the construction or opening of our projects, or otherwise affect the design and features. Construction contractors or counterparties for our current projects may be required to bear certain cost overruns for which they are contractually liable, and if such counterparties are unable to meet their obligations, we may incur increased costs for such developments. For example, we are obligated to commence certain construction projects in Singapore under the Second Development Agreement by April 2022, which we will be unable to timely commence. We are in discussions with the Singapore government on the duration of the timeline extension for commencement and completion of the expansion of MBS to fulfill its obligations under the Second Development Agreement. If such extension is not obtained, we will be in breach of our obligations under the Second Development Agreement. In addition, the number of ongoing projects and their locations throughout the world present unique challenges and risks to our management structure. If our management is unable to manage successfully our worldwide construction projects, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The anticipated costs and completion dates for our current projects are based on budgets, designs, development and construction documents and schedule estimates are prepared with the assistance of architects and other construction development consultants and are subject to change as the design, development and construction documents are finalized and as actual construction work is performed. A failure to complete our projects on budget or on schedule may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may stop generating any gaming revenues from our operations if we cannot secure an extension or renewal of our Macao subconcession, which expires in 2022. Our subconcession expires on June 26, 2022. If our subconcession is not extended or renewed, VML may be prohibited from conducting gaming operations in Macao, and we could cease to generate revenues from our gaming operations when our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022. In addition, all of VML’s casino premises and gaming-related equipment could be automatically transferred to the Macao government without any compensation to us. We cannot assure you we will be able to extend or renew our subconcession on terms favorable to us or at all. 30 Table of Contents Our Macao subconcession and Singapore concession can be terminated under certain circumstances without compensation to us. The Macao government has the right, after consultation with Galaxy Casino Company Limited, to unilaterally terminate our subconcession in the event of VML's serious non-compliance with its basic obligations under the subconcession and applicable Macao laws. Upon termination of our subconcession, our casinos and gaming-related equipment would automatically be transferred to the Macao government without compensation to us and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. The loss of our subconcession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in Macao, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The development agreements between MBS and the STB contains events of default that could permit the STB to terminate the agreement without compensation to us. If the development agreements are terminated, we could lose our right to operate the Marina Bay Sands and our investment in Marina Bay Sands could be lost. The number of visitors to Macao, particularly visitors from mainland China, may decline or travel to Macao may be disrupted. Our VIP and mass market gaming customers typically come from nearby destinations in Asia, including mainland China, Hong Kong, South Korea and Japan. Increasingly, a significant number of gaming customers come to our casinos from mainland China. Any slowdown in economic growth or changes of China's current restrictions on travel and currency movements could further disrupt the number of visitors from mainland China to our casinos in Macao as well as the amounts they are willing and able to spend while at our properties. Policies and measures adopted from time to time by the Chinese government include restrictions imposed on exit visas granted to residents of mainland China for travel to Macao and Hong Kong, such as those implemented in connection with the COVID-19 Pandemic. These measures have, and any future policy developments implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to Macao from mainland China, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in Macao. The Macao and Singapore governments could grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future and increase competition we face. We hold a subconcession under one of only six gaming concessions and subconcessions authorized by the Macao government to operate casinos in Macao through June 26, 2022. We hold one of two licenses granted by the Singapore government to operate a casino in Singapore during an exclusive period expiring on January 1, 2031. If the Macao government were to allow additional gaming operators in Macao or the Singapore government were to license additional casinos, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Conducting business in Macao and Singapore has certain political and economic risks. Our business development plans, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by significant political, social and economic developments in Macao and Singapore, and by changes in policies of the governments or changes in laws and regulations or their interpretations. Our operations in Macao and Singapore are also exposed to the risk of changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies based in those countries. Jurisdictional tax laws and regulations may also be subject to amendment or different interpretation and implementation, thereby having an adverse effect on our profitability after tax. These changes may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Current Macao and Singapore laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions and licenses are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. We believe our organizational structure and operations are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations of Macao and Singapore. These laws and regulations are complex and a court or an administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue regulations, which differs from our interpretation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 31 Table of Contents In addition, our activities in Macao and Singapore are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. We cannot assure you we will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, which may have a material adverse effect on our long-term business strategy and operations. Macao and Singapore laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues. The Macao government approved smoking control legislation, which prohibits smoking in casinos other than in certain enumerated areas. Such legislation may deter potential gaming customers who are smokers from frequenting casinos in jurisdictions with smoking bans such as Macao. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future. We cannot predict the future likelihood or outcome of similar legislation or referendums in other jurisdictions where we operate or the magnitude of any decrease in revenues as a result of such regulations, though any smoking ban could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our tax arrangements with the Macao government may not be extended on terms favorable to us or at all beyond their June 26, 2022 expiration dates. We have had the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in Maca o, which exempts us from paying the 12% corporate income tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games, but does not apply to our non-gaming activities. We will continue to benefit from this tax exemption through June 26, 2022, the date our subconcession agreement expires. Additionally, we entered into an agreement with the Macao government in April 2019, effective through June 26, 2022, providing an annual payment as a substitution for a 12% tax otherwise due from VML shareholders on dividend distributions paid from VML gaming profits. There is no certainty either of the se tax arrangements will be extended beyond their expiration dates. We are dependent upon gaming promoters for a portion of our gaming revenues in Macao. Gaming promoters, which are entities licensed by the gaming regulator in Macao to promote gaming and draw VIP patrons to casinos, are responsible for a portion of our gaming revenues in Macao. There can be no assurance we will be able to maintain, or grow, our relationships with gaming promoters or that gaming promoters will continue to be licensed by the gaming regulator to operate in Macao, which could impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For example, consistent with the overall market in Macao, we terminated our agreements with our three primary gaming promoters in December 2021. In addition, the quality of gaming promoters with whom we have relationships is important to our reputation and our ability to continue to operate in compliance with our gaming licenses. While we strive for excellence in our associations with gaming promoters, we cannot assure you the gaming promoters with whom we are associated will meet the high standards we insist upon. If a gaming promoter falls below our standards, we may suffer reputational harm, as well as worsening relationships with, and possible sanctions from, gaming regulators with authority over our operations. In the event a gaming promoter does not meet its financial obligations, there can be no assurance we may not incur financial exposure. Furthermore, we may be held jointly liable with gaming promoters for activities that occur in our casinos. On November 19, 2021, Macao’s Court of Final Appeal ruled that gaming concessionaires are jointly liable with gaming promoters, including their managers and employees, for activities carried out by gaming promoters in gaming concessionaires’ casinos where those activities relate to the typical activity of the gaming promoters and are carried out for the benefit of gaming concessionaires. While we strive for excellence in systems and practices for monitoring the activities of gaming promoters operating in our casinos, we cannot assure you that we will be able to monitor all activities carried out by them. Furthermore, we cannot assure you to what extent the Macao courts will in the future find us liable for the activities carried out by gaming promoters in our casinos, nor are we able to determine what Macao courts would deem typical activities of gaming promoters to be. The above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to limitations of the pataca exchange markets and restrictions on the export of the renminbi. Our revenues in Macao are denominated in patacas, the legal currency of Macao, and Hong Kong dollars. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar and, in many cases, is used interchangeably with the Hong Kong 32 Table of Contents dollar in Macao. Although currently permitted, we cannot assure you patacas will continue to be freely exchangeable into U.S. dollars. Also, our ability to convert large amounts of patacas into U.S. dollars over a relatively short period may be limited. We are currently prohibited from accepting wagers in renminbi, the legal currency of China. There are also restrictions on the remittance of the renminbi from mainland China and the amount of renminbi that can be converted into foreign currencies, including the pataca and Hong Kong dollar. Restrictions on the remittance of the renminbi from mainland China may impede the flow of gaming customers from mainland China to Macao, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macao and negatively impact our gaming operations. There is no assurance that incremental mainland Chinese regulations will not be promulgated in the future that have the effect of restricting or eliminating the remittance of renminbi from mainland China. Further, if any new mainland Chinese regulations are promulgated in the future that have the effect of permitting or restricting (as the case may be) the remittance of renminbi from mainland China, then such remittances will need to be made subject to the specific requirements or restrictions set out in such rules. VML may have financial and other obligations to foreign workers managed by its contractors under government labor quotas. The Macao government has granted VML a quota to permit it to hire foreign workers. VML has effectively assigned the management of this quota to its contractors for the construction of our Cotai Strip projects. VML, however, remains ultimately liable for all employer obligations relating to these employees, including for payment of wages and taxes and compliance with labor and workers' compensation laws. VML requires each contractor to whom it has assigned the management of part of its labor quota to indemnify VML for any costs or liabilities VML incurs as a result of such contractor's failure to fulfill employer obligations. VML's agreements with its contractors also contain provisions that permit it to retain some payments for up to one year after the contractors' complete work on the projects. We cannot assure you VML's contractors will fulfill their obligations to employees hired under the labor quotas or to VML under the indemnification agreements, or the amount of any indemnification payments received will be sufficient to pay for any obligations VML may owe to employees managed by contractors under VML's quotas. Until we make final payments to our contractors, we have offset rights to collect amounts they may owe us, including amounts owed under the indemnities relating to employer obligations. After we have made the final payments, it may be more difficult for us to enforce any unpaid indemnity obligations. Risks Associated with Our U.S. Operations We are subject to a number of risks associated with the proposed sale of the Las Vegas Operations, and these risks could adversely impact our operations, financial condition and business. On March 2, 2021, we entered into definitive agreements (the “Agreements”) to sell our Las Vegas real property and operations, including The Venetian Resort Las Vegas and the Sands Expo and Convention Center (the “Las Vegas Operations”), for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $6.25 billion (the “Las Vegas Sale”). We are subject to a number of risks associated with the Las Vegas Sale, including risks associated with: the failure to satisfy, on a timely basis or at all, the closing conditions set forth in the Agreements, including the receipt of regulatory approvals; legal proceedings, judgments or settlements, including those that may be instituted against us, our board of directors and executive officers and others; the restrictions on and obligations with respect to our business set forth in the Agreements; any required payments of indemnification obligations under the Agreements for retained liabilities and breaches of representations, warranties or covenants; fluctuations in our market value, including the depreciation in our market value if the Las Vegas Sale is not completed or the failure of the transaction, even if completed, to increase our market value; the amount and timing of payments (if any) required under the post-closing contingent lease support agreement to be entered into in connection with the closing of the Las Vegas Sale; failure to receive full repayment of the $1.2 billion in seller financing that we anticipate providing at closing; and conduct of the Las Vegas Operations under the “Venetian” and “Palazzo” brands and certain other trademarks licensed to the Las Vegas Operations pursuant to the Agreements, which could result in reputational harm to certain of the businesses we are retaining that will continue to operate under such brands if the Las Vegas Operations does not continue to operate in accordance with our high standards and applicable law as required under the Agreements. Risks Related to Stock Ownership and Stockholder Matters 33 Table of Contents The interests of our principal stockholders in our business may be different from yours. Dr. Adelson (the wife of Mr. Adelson), her family members and trusts and other entities established for the benefit of Dr. Adelson‘s family members (collectively our "Principal Stockholders") beneficially owned approximately 57% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2021. (Mr. Adelson was also a Principal Stockholder prior to his death.) Accordingly, our Principal Stockholders exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs, including the composition of our Board of Directors and any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our articles of incorporation and the approval of a merger or sale of substantially all of our assets. The concentration of ownership may also delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of our Principal Stockholders. The interests of our Principal Stockholders may differ from your interests. Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of SCL. In November 2009, our subsidiary, SCL, listed its ordinary shares on The Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the "SCL Offering"). We currently own 69.9% of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of SCL. As a result of SCL having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of SCL may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of SCL. Decisions that could have different implications for us and SCL, including contractual arrangements we have entered into or may in the future enter into with SCL, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. Certain Nevada gaming regulations apply to beneficial owners of our voting securities. Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10% of our voting securities will be required to apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within 30 days after the Chair of the Nevada Board mails a written notice requiring the filing. Under certain circumstances, an "institutional investor" as defined under the regulations of the Nevada Commission, which acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of our voting securities (subject to certain additional holdings as a result of certain debt restructurings or stock repurchase programs under the Nevada Act), may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability requirement if the institutional investor holds our voting securities only for investment purposes. In addition, any beneficial owner of our voting securities, regardless of the number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the discretion of the Nevada Commission to file an application for a finding of suitability as such. In either case, a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing and the applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting the investigation. Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within 30 days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Gaming Authorities may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable who holds, directly or indirectly, any ownership of the common stock of a registered corporation beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We are subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us or a licensed subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed subsidiaries: • pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities; • allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through securities held by that person; • pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or • fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish his or her voting securities including, if necessary, purchasing them for cash at fair market value. Human Capital Related Risk Factors We depend on the continued services of key officers. Our historical success was principally dependent on our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Sheldon G. Adelson. On January 12, 2021, we announced the passing of Mr. Adelson. On January 26, 2021, we announced Robert G. Goldstein was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Patrick Dumont was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a 34 Table of Contents large degree on the services of our senior management team, including Messrs. Goldstein and Dumont. The loss of their services or the services of our other senior managers, or the inability to attract and retain additional senior management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We compete for limited management and labor resources in Macao and Singapore, and policies of those governments may also affect our ability to employ imported managers or labor. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and motivate skilled managers and employees at our properties. The Macao government requires we only hire Macao residents in our casinos for certain employee roles, including as dealers. In addition, we are required in Macao to obtain visas and work permits for managers and employees we seek to employ from other countries. There is significant competition in Macao and Singapore for managers and employees with the skills required to perform the services we offer and competition for these individuals in Macao is likely to increase as other competitors expand their operations. Such competition has intensified recently as certain skilled managers have elected to return to their home countries due to the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic. We may have to recruit managers and employees from other countries to adequately staff and manage our properties and certain Macao government policies affect our ability to hire non-resident managers and employees in certain job classifications. Despite our coordination with the Macao labor and immigration authorities to ensure our management and labor needs are satisfied, we may not be able to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified managers or employees for our operations or the Macao labor and immigration authorities may not grant us the necessary visas or work permits. For example, due to the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic, the government in Singapore is increasingly trying to protect jobs for the local population, which could make it more difficult to obtain and renew visas or work permits for our foreign staff members. If we are unable to obtain, attract, retain and train skilled managers and employees, and obtain any required visas or work permits for our skilled managers and employees, our ability to adequately manage and staff our existing properties and planned development projects could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Labor actions and other labor problems could negatively impact our operations. From time to time, we have experienced attempts by labor organizations to organize certain of our non-union employees. We cannot provide any assurance we will not experience additional and successful union activity in the future. The impact of any union activity is undetermined and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. General Risk Factors We may fail to establish and protect our IP rights and could be subject to claims of IP infringement. We endeavor to establish, protect and enforce our IP, including our trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade secrets and other confidential and proprietary information. There can be no assurance, however, the steps we take to protect our IP will be sufficient. If a third party successfully challenges our trademarks, we could have difficulty maintaining exclusive rights. If a third party claims we have infringed, currently infringe or could in the future infringe upon its IP rights, we may need to cease use of such IP, defend our rights or take other steps. In addition, if third parties violate their obligations to us to maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information or there is a security breach or lapse, or if third parties misappropriate or infringe upon our IP, our business may be affected. Our inability to adequately obtain, maintain or defend our IP rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer and our insurance costs may increase in the future. We have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our properties in operation, as well as those in the course of construction, with coverage features and insured limits we believe are customary in their breadth and scope. Market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. Certain types of losses, generally of a pandemic or catastrophic nature, such as infectious disease, such as the COVID-19 Pandemic, earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, 35 Table of Contents or terrorist acts, or certain liabilities may be, or are, uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. As a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. In addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. As a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Certain of our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements. We are subject to changes in tax laws and regulations. We are subject to taxation and regulation by various government agencies, primarily in Macao, Singapore and the U.S. (federal, state and local levels). From time to time, U.S. federal, state, local and foreign governments make substantive changes to income tax, indirect tax and gaming tax rules and the application of these rules, which could result in higher taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law or interpretation, such as the casino tax rates in Singapore that will increase and move to a tiered structure on March 1, 2022. In particular, government agencies may make changes that could reduce the profits we can effectively realize from our non-U.S. operations. Like most U.S. companies, our effective income tax rate reflects the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the U.S. is taxed at local rates, which are often lower than U.S. tax rates. If changes in tax laws and regulations were to significantly increase the tax rates on gaming revenues or income, these changes could increase our tax expense and liability, and therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to maintain the integrity of our information and information systems or comply with applicable privacy and cybersecurity requirements and regulations could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of data and non-electronic information, including credit card numbers and other information in various information systems we maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we contract and may share data. We also maintain internal information about our employees and information relating to our operations. The integrity and protection of that information are important to us. Our collection of such information is subject to extensive private and governmental regulation. Privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations are developing and changing frequently, and vary significantly by jurisdiction. We may incur significant costs in our efforts to comply with the various applicable privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations as they emerge and change. Compliance with applicable privacy laws and regulations also may adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties, and services to our guests and patrons. Non-compliance by us, or potentially by third parties with which we share information, with any applicable privacy and cybersecurity law or regulation, including accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unauthorized access or dissemination, or breach of security may result in damage to our reputation and could subject us to fines, penalties, required corrective actions, lawsuits, payment of damages, or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. We have experienced a sophisticated criminal cybersecurity attack in the past and may experience with more frequency global cybersecurity and information security threats, which may range from uncoordinated individual attempts to sophisticated and targeted measures directed at us. There has been an increase in criminal cybersecurity attacks against companies where customer and company information has been compromised and company data has been destroyed. Our information systems and records, including those we maintain with third-party service providers, may be subject to cyber-attacks and information security breaches. Cyber-attacks and information security breaches may include attempts to access information, computer malware such as viruses, denial of service, ransomware attacks that encrypt, exfiltrate, or otherwise render data unusable or unavailable in an effort to extort money or other consideration as a condition to purportedly returning the data to a usable form, operator errors or misuse, or inadvertent releases of data or documents, and other forms of electronic and non-electronic information security breaches. Our data security measures are reviewed regularly and we rely on proprietary and commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission, and storage of 36 Table of Contents customer and employee information. We also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, maintain information, and manage our businesses. Our third-party information system service providers and other third parties that share data with us pursuant to contractual agreements also face risks relating to cybersecurity and privacy, and we do not directly control any of such parties' information security or privacy operations. For example, the systems currently used for the transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not us. Our gaming operations rely heavily on technology services provided by third parties. In the event there is an interruption of these services to us, it may have an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Disruptions in the availability of our computer systems, or those of third parties we engage to provide gaming operating systems for the facilities we operate, through cybersecurity attacks or otherwise, could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales and the results of operations. A significant theft, destruction, loss or fraudulent use of information maintained by us or by a third-party service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation, cause a material disruption to our operations and management team and result in remediation expenses (including liability for stolen assets or information, repairing system damage and offering incentives to customers or business partners to maintain their relationships after an attack) and regulatory fines, penalties and corrective actions, or lawsuits by regulators, third-party service providers, third parties that share data with us pursuant to contractual agreements and/or people whose data is or may be impacted. Such theft, destruction, loss or fraudulent use could also result in litigation by stockholders. Advances in computer software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools, and other developments, including continuously evolving attack methods that may exploit vulnerabilities based on these advances, may increase the risk of a security breach or other intrusion. In addition, we may incur increased cybersecurity and privacy protection costs that may include organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees and engaging third-party experts and consultants. There can be no assurance the insurance we have in place relating to cybersecurity and privacy risks will be sufficient in the event of a major cybersecurity or privacy event. Any of these events could interrupt our operations, adversely impact our reputation and brand and expose us to increased risks of governmental investigation, litigation, fines and other liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because we own real property, we are subject to extensive environmental regulation. We have incurred and will continue to incur costs to comply with environmental requirements, such as those relating to discharges into the air, water and land, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the cleanup of properties affected by hazardous substances. Under these and other environmental requirements, we may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at our properties and may be held responsible to governmental entities or third parties, as an owner or operator, for property damage, personal injury and investigation and cleanup costs incurred by them in connection with any contamination. These laws typically impose cleanup responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. The costs of investigation, remediation or removal of those substances may be substantial, and the presence of those substances, or the failure to remediate a property properly, may impair our ability to use our properties. We are subject to risks from litigation, investigations, enforcement actions and other disputes. Our business is subject to various U.S. and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. In addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or gaming promoters could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. In certain circumstances, it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or our legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. The investigations, litigation and other disputes may also lead to additional scrutiny from regulators, which could lead to investigations relating to, and possibly negatively impact, our gaming licenses and our ability to bid successfully for new gaming market opportunities. We cannot predict the outcome of any pending or future proceedings and the impact they will have on our financial results, but any such impact may be material. While some of these claims are covered by insurance, we cannot be certain that all of them will be, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We could be negatively impacted by environmental, social and governance and sustainability matters. 37 Table of Contents Governments, investors, customers, employees and other stakeholders are increasingly focusing on corporate environmental, social and governance ("ESG") practices and disclosures, and expectations in this area are rapidly evolving and growing. The criteria by which our ESG practices are assessed may change due to the evolution of the sustainability landscape, which could result in greater expectations of us and cause us to undertake costly initiatives to satisfy such new criteria. If we are unable to satisfy such new criteria, stakeholders may conclude our policies and/or actions with respect to ESG matters are inadequate and our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.