" and elsewhere in this report. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report may not occur as contemplated, and our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied by the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this report are made as of the date hereof, based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General lululemon athletica inc. is principally a designer, distributor, and retailer of healthy lifestyle inspired athletic apparel and accessories. We have a mission to create transformational products and experiences which enable people to live a life they love, and have developed a brand for those pursuing an active, mindful lifestyle. Since our inception, we have fostered a distinctive corporate culture; we promote a set of core values in our business which include taking personal responsibility, nurturing entrepreneurial spirit, acting with honesty and courage, valuing connection, and choosing to have fun. These core values attract passionate and motivated employees who are driven to achieve personal and professional goals, and share our purpose of "elevating the world through the power of practice." In this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("10-K" or "Report") for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2018 ("fiscal 2017 "), lululemon athletica inc. (together with its subsidiaries) is referred to as "lululemon," "the Company," "we," "us" or "our." Our Products Our healthy lifestyle inspired athletic apparel and accessories are marketed under the lululemon and ivivva brand names. We offer a comprehensive line of apparel and accessories for women, men and female youth. Our apparel assortment includes items such as pants, shorts, tops, and jackets designed for a healthy lifestyle and athletic activities such as yoga, running, training, and most other sweaty pursuits. We also offer fitness-related accessories, including items such as bags, socks, underwear, yoga mats and equipment, and water bottles. Our design and development team continues to source technically advanced fabrics, with new feel and fit, and craft innovative functional features for our products. Through our vertical retail strategy and direct connection with our guests, we are able to collect feedback and incorporate unique performance and fashion needs into our design process. In this way, we believe we solve problems for our guests, helping us advance our product lines and differentiate us from the competition. Although we benefit from the growing number of people that participate in yoga, we believe the percentage of our products sold for other activities will continue to increase as we broaden our product range. Our Market Our guests seek a combination of performance, style, and sensation in their athletic apparel, choosing products that allow them to feel great however they exercise. Since consumer purchase decisions are driven by both an actual need for functional products and a desire to live a particular lifestyle, we believe the credibility of our brand and the authentic community experiences we offer expand our potential market beyond just athletes to those who pursue an active, mindful, and balanced life. 1 Table of Contents Although our primary and largest customer group is made up of women, we also design a comprehensive men's line and have a targeted strategy in place to serve our male guests. Our business is growing as more men discover the technical rigor and premium quality of our products, and are attracted by our distinctive brand. North America is our largest market by geographical split, offering a mature health and wellness industry and sophisticated consumer. Additionally, we are expanding internationally across Europe (including the United Kingdom and Germany) and Asia Pacific (including China, South Korea, and Japan). We are expanding in these regions via a decentralized model, allowing for local community insight and consumer preference to inform our strategic expansion. Our Segments We primarily conduct our business through two channels: company-operated stores and direct to consumer. We also generate net revenue from outlets, sales from temporary locations, sales to wholesale accounts, showrooms, warehouse sales, and license and supply arrangements. The net revenue we generate from these sources is combined in our other segment. We operate in both the physical and digital space to better cater to the shopping desires of our guest. At the end of fiscal 2017 , we had 404 stores in 12 countries across the globe. In addition to being a venue to sell product, our stores give us a direct connection to our guest, which we view as a valuable tool in helping us build our brand and product line. Our direct to consumer segment includes the net revenue which we generate from our e-commerce website www.lululemon.com, other country and region specific websites, and mobile apps, including mobile apps on in-store devices that allow demand to be fulfilled via our distribution centers. Segment information is included in Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report. Company-Operated Stores As of January 28, 2018 , our retail footprint included 404 company-operated stores. While most of our company-operated stores are branded lululemon, seven of our company-operated stores are branded ivivva and specialize in athletic wear for female youth. Our retail stores are located primarily on street locations, in lifestyle centers, and in malls. 2 Table of Contents Our company-operated stores by brand, and by country, as of January 28, 2018 and January 29, 2017 , are summarized in the table below: __________ We opened 46 net new lululemon branded company-operated stores in fiscal 2017 , including 16 net new stores outside of North America. We perform ongoing evaluations of our portfolio of company-operated store locations. In fiscal 2017 , we closed three of our lululemon branded company-operated stores, and on August 20, 2017 , as part of the restructuring of our ivivva operations, we closed 48 of our 55 ivivva branded company-operated stores. The seven remaining ivivva branded stores remain in operation and are not expected to close. As we continue our evaluation we may, in future periods, close or relocate additional company-operated stores. In fiscal 2018 , our new store growth will come primarily from new company-operated stores in the United States and an acceleration in our company-operated store openings in Asia. Our real estate strategy over the next several years will not only consist of opening new company-operated stores, but also in overall square footage growth through store expansions and relocations. We believe that our innovative retail concept and guest experience contribute to the success of our stores. During fiscal 2017 , our company-operated stores open at least one year, which average approximately 3,012 square feet, averaged sales of $1,554 per square foot. The square footage of our company-operated stores excludes space used for non-retail activities such as yoga studios and office space. Direct to Consumer Direct to consumer is a substantial part of our business, representing approximately 21.8% of our net revenue in fiscal 2017 . We believe that e-commerce is convenient for our core customer and enhances the image of our brand. Our direct to consumer channel makes our product accessible to more markets than our company-operated store channel alone. We believe this channel is effective in building brand awareness, especially in new markets. 3 Table of Contents We continue to evolve and integrate our digital and physical channels in order to enrich our interactions with our guests, and to provide an enhanced omni-channel experience. Other Channels Other net revenue accounted for 8.9% of total net revenue in fiscal 2017 , compared to 8.0% in fiscal 2016 , and 6.9% of total net revenue in fiscal 2015 . Other net revenue includes sales made through the following channels: We have entered into license and supply arrangements with partners in the Middle East and Mexico which grant them the right to operate lululemon branded retail locations in the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, Bahrain, and Mexico. We retain the rights to sell lululemon products through our e-commerce websites in these countries. Under these arrangements we supply the partners with lululemon products, training and other support. The initial term of the agreement for the Middle East expires in January 2020, and the initial term of the agreement for Mexico expires in November 2026. As of January 28, 2018 , there were three licensed retail locations in the United Arab Emirates , one in Qatar , and one in Mexico , which are not included in the above company-operated stores table. Community-Based Marketing We utilize a community-based approach to build brand awareness and customer loyalty. We pursue a multi-faceted strategy which leverages our local teams and ambassadors, digital marketing and social media, in-store community boards, and a variety of grassroots initiatives. Our first global marketing campaign launched in fiscal 2017, and we plan to continue to explore how we complement and amplify our community-based initiatives with global brand-building activity. Product Design and Development Our product design and development efforts are led by a team of researchers, scientists, engineers and designers based in Vancouver, British Columbia, partnering with international designers. Our team is comprised of athletes and users of our products who embody our design philosophy and dedication to premium quality. Our design and development team identifies trends based on market intelligence and research, proactively seeks the input of our guests and our ambassadors and broadly seeks inspiration consistent with our goals of function, style and technical superiority. As we strive to continue to provide our guests with technically advanced fabrics, our team works closely with our suppliers to incorporate the latest in technical innovation, bringing particular specifications to our products. We partner with independent inspection, verification, and testing companies, who conduct a variety of tests on our fabrics, testing performance characteristics including pilling, shrinkage, abrasion resistance, and colorfastness. We develop proprietary fabrics and collaborate with leading fabric and trims suppliers to manufacture fabrics and trims that we ultimately protect through agreements, trademarks and trade-secrets. Sourcing and Manufacturing We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide fabrics for, and to produce, our products. We work with a group of approximately 65 suppliers to provide the fabrics for our products. We work with a group of approximately 47 vendors that manufacture our products, five of which produced approximately 64% of 4 Table of Contents our products in fiscal 2017 . During fiscal 2017 , no single manufacturer produced more than 25% of our product offerings. During fiscal 2017 , approximately 53% of our products were manufactured in South East Asia, approximately 25% in South Asia, approximately 10% in China, approximately 8% in the Americas, and the remainder in other regions. We have developed long-standing relationships with a number of our vendors and take great care to ensure that they share our commitment to quality and ethics. We do not, however, have any long-term term contracts with the majority of our suppliers or manufacturing sources for the production and supply of our fabrics and garments, and we compete with other companies for fabrics, raw materials, and production. We require that all of our manufacturers adhere to a vendor code of ethics regarding social and environmental sustainability practices. Our product quality and sustainability teams partner with leading inspection and verification firms to closely monitor each supplier's compliance with applicable laws and our vendor code of ethics. Distribution Facilities We operate and distribute finished products from our distribution facilities in the United States, Canada, and Australia. We own our distribution center in Columbus, Ohio, and lease our other distribution facilities. The approximate square footage of each facility is included in