The risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: 

 General Risks Affecting Our Business 

•
Weak economic conditions, including high unemployment and reduced consumer spending, may adversely affect our ability to
grow or maintain our business. 
 

•
We currently depend on DISH Network Corporation, or DISH Network, and Bell TV for substantially all of our revenue. The
loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from or a decrease in selling prices of digital set-top boxes, transponder leasing, digital broadcast operations and/or other products or
services to, DISH Network or Bell TV would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our results of operations. 
 

•
If we are unsuccessful in overturning the District Court's ruling on Tivo's motion for contempt, we are not successful in
developing and deploying potential new alternative technology and we are unable to reach a license agreement with Tivo on reasonable terms, we would be subject to substantial liability and would be
prohibited from offering DVR functionality that would in turn place us at a significant disadvantage to our competitors and significantly decrease sales of digital set-top boxes to DISH
Network and others. 
 

•
Adverse developments in DISH Network's business may adversely affect us. 
 

•
We currently have substantial unused satellite capacity, and our results of operations may be materially adversely
affected if we are not able to utilize more of this capacity. 
 

•
As a result of our Spin-off from DISH Network, our financial statements for 2007 do not reflect all the assets
and lines of business that are reflected in our 2008 and 2009 financial statements, potentially making it more difficult to compare growth and other metrics in 2008 and 2009 with prior periods. 
 

•
Our sales to DISH Network could be terminated or substantially curtailed on short notice which would have a detrimental
effect on us. 
 

•
We may need additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, to continue investing in our
business and to finance acquisitions and other strategic transactions. 
 

•
We may experience significant financial losses on our existing investments. 
 

•
We may pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions to complement or expand our business which may not be
successful and we may lose up to the entire value of our investment in these acquisitions and transactions. 
 

•
We intend to make significant investments in new products, services, technologies and business areas that may not be
profitable. 

i

 

Table of Contents

•
We are party to various lawsuits which, if adversely decided, could have a significant adverse impact on our business,
particularly lawsuits regarding intellectual property. 
 

•
We have not been an independent company for a significant amount of time and we may be unable to make, on a timely or
cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent company. 
 

•
If we are unable to properly respond to technological changes, our business could be significantly harmed. 
 

•
We rely on key personnel and the loss of their services may negatively affect our businesses. 

 Risks Affecting Our "Digital Set-Top Box" Business 

•
We depend on sales of digital set-top boxes for nearly all of our revenue and a decline in sales of our
digital set-top boxes would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 
 

•
Our business may suffer if direct-to-home satellite service providers, who currently comprise our
customer base, do not compete successfully with existing and emerging alternative platforms for delivering digital television, including cable television operators, terrestrial broadcasters, and
Internet protocol television ("IPTV"). 
 

•
Our future financial performance depends in part on our ability to penetrate new markets for digital set-top
boxes. 
 

•
We may be exposed to the risk of inflation or stable component pricing which could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations. 
 

•
The average selling price and gross margins of our digital set-top boxes has been decreasing and may decrease
even further, which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. 
 

•
Our ability to sell our digital set-top boxes to other operators depends on our ability to obtain licenses to
use the conditional access systems utilized by these other operators. 
 

•
Growth in our "Digital Set-Top Box" business likely requires expansion of our sales to international
customers, and we may be unsuccessful in expanding international sales. 
 

•
The digital set-top box business is extremely competitive. 
 

•
We expect to continue to face competition from new market entrants, principally located in Asia, that offer low cost
set-top boxes. 
 

•
Our digital set-top boxes are highly complex and may experience quality or supply problems. 
 

•
If significant numbers of television viewers are unwilling to pay for premium programming packages that utilize digital
set-top boxes, we may not be able to sustain our current revenue level. 
 

•
Our reliance on a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers for several key components used in our digital
set-top boxes could restrict production and result in higher digital set-top box costs. 
 

•
Our future growth depends on growing demand for high definition, or HD, television. 

ii

 

Table of Contents

 Risks Affecting Our "Satellite Services" Business 

•
We currently face competition from established competitors in the satellite service business and may face competition from
others in the future. 
 

•
Our owned and leased satellites in orbit are subject to significant operational and environmental risks that could limit
our ability to utilize these satellites. 
 

•
Our satellites have minimum design lives ranging from 12 to 15 years, but could fail or suffer reduced capacity
before then. 
 

•
Our satellites under construction are subject to risks related to construction and launch that could limit our ability to
utilize these satellites. 
 

•
Our "Satellite Services" business is subject to risks of adverse government regulation. 
 

•
Our business depends on Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, licenses that can expire or be revoked or modified and
applications for FCC licenses that may not be granted. 
 

•
We may not be aware of certain foreign government regulations. 
 

•
Our dependence on outside contractors could result in delays related to the design, manufacture and launch of our new
satellites, which could in turn adversely affect our operating results. 
 

•
We currently have no commercial insurance coverage on the satellites we own and could face significant impairment charges
if one of our satellites fails. 

 Risks Relating to the Spin-Off 

•
We have potential conflicts of interest with DISH Network due to our common ownership and management. 

 Risks Relating to our Common Stock and the Securities Market 

•
We cannot assure you that there will not be deficiencies leading to material weaknesses in our internal control over
financial reporting. 
 

•
It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders, because of
our capital structure. 
 

•
We are controlled by one principal shareholder who is our Chairman. 
 

•
We may face other risks described from time to time in periodic and current reports we file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, or SEC. 

All
cautionary statements made herein should be read as being applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear. Investors should consider the risks described herein and should not
place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We assume no responsibility for updating forward-looking information contained or incorporated by reference herein or in other reports we file
with the SEC. 

In
this report, the words "EchoStar," the "Company," "we," "our" and "us" refer to EchoStar Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. "DISH Network" refers to DISH
Network Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. 

iii

 

Table of Contents
 

 

 

 PART I 
 

 

 
 
 
Item 1. BUSINESS 
 

 OVERVIEW 

EchoStar Corporation ("EchoStar," the "Company," "we," "us" and/or "our") had not conducted independent operations prior to its separation
("Spin-off") from DISH Network Corporation ("DISH Network") on January 1, 2008 through a distribution of 100% of the common stock of EchoStar to the holders of DISH Network's common
stock. The Spin-off was made pursuant to a separation agreement by which DISH Network contributed to us the subsidiaries and assets that operated DISH Network's digital set-top
box business, satellite services, digital broadcast operations, certain real estate and other assets and liabilities. We and DISH Network now operate as separate publicly-traded companies, and neither
entity has any ownership interest in the other. However, a substantial majority of the voting power of both companies is owned beneficially by Charles W. Ergen, the Chairman of our Board of Directors. 

We
currently operate two primary business units: 

•
"Digital Set-Top Box" Business
—which designs,
develops and distributes digital set-top boxes and related products, including our Slingbox "placeshifting" technology, primarily for satellite TV service providers, telecommunication and
cable companies and, with respect to Slingboxes, directly to consumers via retail outlets. Our "Digital Set-Top Box" business also provides digital broadcast operations including satellite
uplinking/downlinking, transmission services, signal processing, conditional access management and other services provided primarily to DISH Network. 
 

•
"Satellite Services" Business
—which uses our ten owned and
leased in-orbit satellites and related FCC licenses to lease capacity on a full time and occasional-use basis to enterprise, broadcast news and government organizations. We
currently lease capacity primarily to DISH Network, and secondarily to government entities, Internet service providers, broadcast news organizations and private enterprise customers. 

Our
experience with digital set-top boxes and satellite delivery systems enables us to provide end-to-end pay TV delivery systems incorporating our satellite and
backhaul capacity, customized digital set-top boxes and related components, and network design and management. 

 Related Party Transactions 

During November 2008, we entered into a joint venture for a direct-to-home, or DTH, service in Mexico known as Dish Mexico,
S. de R.L. de C.V., or Dish Mexico. Pursuant to these arrangements, we provide certain broadcast services and satellite capacity and sell hardware such as digital set-top boxes and related
equipment to Dish Mexico. Subject to a number of conditions, including regulatory approvals and compliance with various other arrangements, we committed to provide approximately $112 million of
value over an initial ten year period, of which $74 million has been satisfied in the form of cash, equipment and services, leaving $38 million remaining under this commitment. Of the
remaining commitment, approximately $19 million is expected to be paid in cash and the remaining amounts may be satisfied in the form of certain services or equipment. During the year ended
December 31, 2009, we sold $36 million of set-top boxes and related accessories to Dish Mexico that are not related to the original commitment associated with our investment
in Dish Mexico. 

During
December 2009, we entered into a joint venture, to provide a DTH service in Taiwan and certain other targeted regions in Asia. We own 50% and have joint control of the entity. Pursuant to these
arrangements, we sell hardware such as digital set-top boxes and provide certain technical support services. We have provided $18 million of cash, and an $18 million line of
credit that the joint venture 

1

 

Table of Contents

may
only use to purchase set-top boxes from us. As of December 31, 2009, no amounts have been drawn on the line of credit. 

We
were organized in October 2007 as a corporation under the laws of the State of Nevada. Our Class A common stock is publicly traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "SATS."
Our principal executive offices are located at 100 Inverness Terrace E., Englewood, Colorado 80112-5308 and our telephone number is (303) 706-4000. 

 BUSINESS STRATEGIES 

 Expand "Digital Set-Top Box" business to additional customers.
 Historically, many of our potential customers viewed us as a competitor due to our
affiliation with DISH Network. Our separation from DISH Network was intended in part to enhance our opportunities to sell digital set-top boxes to a broader group of pay TV distributors in
the United States as well as internationally. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in entering into any of these commercial relationships (particularly if we continue to be
perceived as affiliated with DISH Network as a result of common ownership and related management). 

 Leverage satellite capacity and related infrastructure.
 Our "Satellite Services" business benefits from excess satellite and fiber capacity. While DISH Network is
our primary customer for satellite services, we believe market opportunities exist to lease our capacity to a broader customer base, including providers of pay TV service, satellite-delivered IP,
corporate communications and government services. 

 Offer end-to-end pay TV delivery systems.
 We intend to leverage our approximately 1,000 engineers to customize infrastructure solutions for
a broad base of customers. For example, as recently demonstrated by our Dish Mexico joint venture, we are offering customers end-to-end pay TV delivery systems incorporating
our satellite and backhaul capacity, customized digital set-top boxes and network design and management. 

 Capitalize on change in regulations.
 Changes in federal law and regulations applicable to the set-top box industry may create opportunities for us to
expand our business. For instance, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, requires cable providers to use removable security modules to provide conditional access security for television
content. The FCC intended for this regulation to spur competition in the retail set-top box market, providing an even playing field between leased cable set-top boxes and
retail-bought, cable-ready TVs and set-top box equipment. We believe this new regulation may create an opportunity for us to compete on a more level field in the domestic market for cable
set-top boxes. 

 Exploit international opportunities.
 We believe that direct-to-home satellite service is particularly well-suited for countries
without extensive cable infrastructure, and we intend to continue to try to secure new investments and customer relationships with international direct-to-home satellite
service providers. 

 Pursue strategic partnerships, joint ventures and acquisitions.
 We intend to selectively pursue partnerships, joint ventures and strategic acquisition
opportunities that we believe may allow us to increase our existing market share, expand into new markets, broaden our portfolio of products and intellectual property, and strengthen our relationships
with our customers. 

 Act on the set-top box replacement cycle.
 The broader adoption of high definition television by consumers will require more advanced compression and
security technologies within set-top boxes. This may launch a replacement cycle, particularly among direct-to-home and cable providers with substantial bases of
legacy equipment, which may create additional market opportunities for us. 

2

 

Table of Contents

 Significantly expand our marketing and sales capabilities.
 Historically, our sales and marketing efforts have been limited in scope and focused on international
opportunities because the majority of our products and services were provided to DISH Network pursuant to purchase orders, as opposed to long-term contracts. In addition, we historically
did not actively seek opportunities with other multi-channel video providers in light of our relationship with DISH Network, which is a competitor to many of these video providers. Therefore, to
successfully implement our business strategy, we are expanding our marketing and sales capabilities both domestically and internationally. In particular, we are expanding our marketing and sales
capabilities and efforts with domestic pay TV providers other than DISH Network. 

 "DIGITAL SET-TOP BOX" BUSINESS 

 Our Products 

 Digital Set-Top Boxes.
 Our digital set-top boxes permit consumers to watch, control and record television programming through digital video
recorder, or DVR, technology integrated with satellite receivers. Certain of our digital set-top boxes are also capable of incorporating IPTV functionality, which allows consumers to
download movies, music and other content via the Internet through an Ethernet connection. 

Our
current digital set-top box offerings include: 

•
Slingboxes:
 From our wholly owned subsidiary, Sling Media,
we produce and sell at retail channels a variety of Slingbox products, including the Slingbox, Slingbox PRO HD, SlingCatcher and Slingbox Solo. Slingboxes contain a patented "placeshifting" technology
that allows consumers to watch and control their digital television content anywhere in the world via a broadband internet connection. 
 

•
SlingLoaded HD-DVR digital set-top
boxes:
 These devices combine HD-DVR digital set-top boxes with Sling Media's Slingbox technology, creating the
first high definition digital video recorder that incorporates placeshifting technology into a single device. This placeshifting set-top box has a built-in hard drive capable
of storing up to 1,000 hours of SD, or 150 hours of HD, content, a new user interface, and allows users to increase their DVR storage capacity through the use of external hard drives. 
 

•
Standard-definition ("SD") digital set-top
boxes:
 These devices allow consumers who subscribe to television service from multi-channel video distributors to access encrypted
digital video and audio content and make use of a variety of interactive applications. These applications include an on-screen program guide, pay-per-view
offerings, the ability to support V-chip type parental control technology, games and shopping. 
 

•
SD-DVR digital set-top boxes:
 In
addition to the functionality of an SD basic digital set-top box, these devices enable subscribers to pause, stop, reverse, fast forward, record and replay digital television content using
a built-in hard drive capable of storing up to 200 hours of content. They also include the ability to support video-on-demand, or VOD, services. 
 

•
High-Definition ("HD") digital set-top
boxes:
 These devices enable subscribers to access the enhanced picture quality and sound of high-definition content, in
addition to the functionality of an SD digital set-top box. 
 

•
HD-DVR digital set-top
boxes:
 These devices combine the functionality of HD digital set-top box and a DVR digital set-top box into a
single device. In general, our most-advanced HD-DVR digital set-top boxes are capable of storing up to 350 hours of SD, or 55 hours of HD, content,
contain IPTV functionality, and allow users to increase their DVR storage capacity through the use of external hard drives. 

3

 

Table of Contents

In
addition to digital set-top boxes, we also design and develop related products such as satellite dishes, remote controls, Sling enabled devices,
digital-to-analog converter boxes, which will allow consumers to view, record and play back local over-the-air analog and digital broadcasts on analog
TV sets, and other devices and accessories. 

 Digital Broadcast Operations.
 We operate a number of digital broadcast centers in the United States. Our principal digital broadcast centers are located in
Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Gilbert, Arizona. We also have six regional digital broadcast centers that allow us to maximize the use of the spot beam capabilities of our satellites and our customers'
satellites. Programming and other data is received at these centers by fiber or satellite, it is then processed, compressed, and encrypted and then uplinked to our satellites and our customers'
satellites for transmission to end users. In addition, we have the capability to aggregate content at our digital broadcast centers and offer transport services for over 300 channels of
MPEG-4 IP encapsulated standard-definition and high-definition programming from our satellite located at the 85 degree orbital location.
We intend to offer these wholesale programming transport services to telecommunication companies, rural cable operators, local exchange carriers and wireless broadband providers. 

 Our Customers 

Historically, the primary customer of our "Digital Set-Top Box" business has been DISH Network. For the fiscal years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, DISH Network accounted for approximately 81.3%, 86.5% and 83.8% of our total revenue, respectively. In addition, Bell TV, a
direct-to-home satellite service provider in Canada, accounted for 10.5%, 8.4% and 10.7%, respectively, of our total revenue for the fiscal years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007. We also currently sell our digital set-top boxes to other international direct-to-home satellite service providers, although these customers do
not account for a significant amount of our total revenue. 

In
the near term, we expect to rely on DISH Network to remain the primary customer of our "Digital Set-Top Box" business and the primary source of our total revenue. We have entered into
commercial agreements with DISH Network pursuant to which we are obligated to sell digital set-top boxes and related products to DISH Network at our cost plus a fixed margin until
January 1, 2011. However, DISH Network is under no obligation to purchase our digital set-top boxes or related products during or after this period. 

A
substantial majority of our international revenue during each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, was attributable to sales of digital set-top boxes to Bell TV.
In early 2009, we completed a multi-year contract extension with Bell TV that makes us the exclusive provider of digital set-top boxes to Bell TV, subject to certain limited
exceptions. The agreement includes fixed pricing over the term of the agreement as well as providing future engineering development for enhanced Bell TV service offerings. 

 Our Competition 

As we seek to establish ourselves in the digital set-top box industry as an independent business, we face substantial competition. Many
of our primary competitors, such as Motorola, Inc. and Cisco Systems, Inc., which owns Scientific Atlanta, Pace and Technicolor have established longstanding relationships with their
customers. Although some of the competitors own the conditional access technology deployed by their customers, the FCC mandated removable security in digital cable systems, which allows us to compete
for this type of business. In addition, we may face competition from international developers of digital set-top box systems that may be
able to develop and manufacture products and services at costs that are substantially lower than ours. Our ability to compete in the digital set-top box industry will also depend heavily
on our ability to successfully bring new technologies to market to keep pace with our competitors. 

4

 

Table of Contents

 Our Manufacturers 

Although we design, engineer and distribute digital set-top boxes and related products, we are not generally engaged in the manufacturing
process. Rather, we outsource the manufacturing of our digital set-top boxes and related products to third party manufacturers who manufacture our products according to specifications
supplied by us. We depend on a few manufacturers, and in some cases a single manufacturer, for the production of digital set-top boxes and related products. Although there can be no
assurance, we do not believe that the loss of any single manufacturer would materially impact our business. Sanmina-SCI Corporation and Jabil Circuit, Inc. currently manufacture the
majority of our digital set-top boxes. 

 "SATELLITE SERVICES" BUSINESS 

We operate six owned and four leased in-orbit satellites. We also have one owned satellite and one leased satellite under construction.
In addition, we have suspended construction on the CMBStar satellite. 

Our
transponder capacity is currently used by our customers for a variety of applications: 

•
Direct to Home Services.
 We lease satellite transponder
capacity to satellite TV providers, broadcasters and programmers who use our satellites to deliver programming. Our satellites are also used for the transmission of live sporting events, Internet and
disaster recovery, and satellite news gathering services. 
 

•
Government Services.
 We lease satellite capacity and
provide technical services to U.S. government agencies and contractors. We believe the U.S. government may increase its use of commercial satellites for Homeland Security, emergency response,
continuing education, distance learning, and training. 
 

•
Network Services.
 We lease satellite transponder capacity
and provide terrestrial network services to corporations. These networks are dedicated private networks that allow delivery of video and data services for corporate communications. Our satellites can
be used for point-to-point or point to multi-point communications. 

 Our Customers 

We lease transponder capacity on our satellite fleet primarily to DISH Network, but also to a small number of government entities, Internet service
providers, broadcast news organizations, programmers and private enterprise customers. Currently, due to our limited base of customers, we have a substantial amount of excess capacity. For the year
ended December 31, 2009, DISH Network accounted for approximately 87.6% of our total satellite services revenue. We have entered into certain commercial agreements with DISH Network pursuant to
which we are obligated to provide DISH Network with satellite services at fixed prices for varying lengths of time depending on the satellite. See "Related Party Transactions with DISH
Network—Satellite Capacity Agreements" in Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for
further discussion. However, DISH Network may terminate these agreements upon 60 days notice. While we expect to continue to provide satellite services to DISH Network, its satellite capacity
requirements may change for a variety of reasons, including DISH Network's ability to construct and launch its own satellites. Any termination or reduction in the services we provide to DISH Network
may increase excess capacity on our satellites and require that we aggressively pursue alternative sources of revenue for this business. Our other satellite service sales are generally characterized
by shorter-term contracts or spot market sales. Future costs associated with our excess capacity will negatively impact our margins if we do not generate revenue to offset these costs. 

5

 

Table of Contents

 Our Competition 

We compete against larger, well-established satellite service companies, such as Intelsat Corporation, SES Americom and Telesat
Holdings, Inc., in an industry that is characterized by long-term leases and high switching costs. Therefore, it will be difficult to displace customers from their current
relationships with our competitors. Intelsat and SES Americom maintain key North American orbital slots which may further limit competition and competitive pricing. In addition, our satellite service
business could face significant competition from suppliers of terrestrial communications capacity. 

While
we believe that there may be opportunities to capture new business as a result of market trends such as the increased communications demands of homeland security initiatives, there can be no
assurance that we will be able to effectively compete against our competitors due to their significant resources and operating history. 

 OTHER BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES 

We intend to evaluate new strategic development opportunities both in North America, Asia and in other international markets. We also plan to expand
our business and support the development of new satellite-delivered services, such as mobile video services. The expertise we obtain through these strategic investments may also help us to improve and
expand the services that we provide to our existing customers. 

 OUR SATELLITE FLEET 

Our satellite fleet consists of both owned and leased satellites detailed in the table below. 

Satellites

 

Launch

Date 

 

Degree

Orbital

Location 

 

Original

Useful Life/

Lease Term

(In Years) 

 

 
Owned:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
EchoStar III

 

October 1997

 

 

61.5

 

 

12

 

 
EchoStar IV

 

May 1998

 

 

77

 

 

12

 

 
EchoStar VI

 

July 2000

 

 

72.7

 

 

12

 

 
EchoStar VIII

 

August 2002

 

 

77

 

 

12

 

 
EchoStar IX

 

August 2003

 

 

121

 

 

12

 

 
EchoStar XII

 

July 2003

 

 

61.5

 

 

10

 

 
Leased from DISH Network:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
EchoStar I

 

December 1995

 

 

77

 

 

12

 

 
Leased from Other Third Parties:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
AMC-15

 

December 2004

 

 

105

 

 

10

 

 
AMC-16

 

January 2005

 

 

85

 

 

10

 

 
Nimiq 5

 

September 2009

 

 

72.7

 

 

15

 

 
Under Construction:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
QuetzSat-1 (leased)

 

2011

 

 

77

 

 

10

 

 
EchoStar XVI (owned)

 

2012

 

 

61.5

 

 

15

 

 
CMBStar (owned)

 

construction suspended

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Prior
to 2009, certain satellites in our fleet have experienced anomalies, some of which have had a significant adverse impact on their remaining life and commercial operation. There can be no
assurance that future anomalies will not further impact the remaining life and commercial operation of any of these satellites. See "
Long-Lived Satellite
Assets
" in Note 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of
evaluation of 

6

 

Table of Contents

impairment.
There can be no assurance that we can recover critical transmission capacity in the event one or more of our in-orbit satellites were to fail. We do not anticipate carrying
insurance for any of the in-orbit satellites that we own, and we will bear the risk associated with any in-orbit satellite failures. Recent developments with respect to our
satellites are discussed below. 

 Owned Satellites 

 EchoStar III.
 EchoStar III was originally designed to operate a maximum of 32 DBS transponders in CONUS mode at approximately 120 watts per channel, switchable to
16 transponders operating at over 230 watts per channel, and was equipped with a total of 44 traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTAs") to provide redundancy. As a result of TWTA failures in previous
years and an additional pair of TWTA failures during August 2009, only 14 transponders are currently available for use. Due to redundancy switching limitations and specific channel authorizations, we
are currently operating on 13 of our FCC authorized frequencies at the 61.5 degree orbital location. While the failures have not impacted commercial operation of the satellite, it is likely that
additional TWTA failures will occur from time to time in the future and such failures could impact commercial operation of the satellite. 

 EchoStar XII.
 Prior to 2009, EchoStar XII experienced anomalies resulting in the loss of electrical power available from its solar arrays. During March and May
2009, EchoStar XII experienced more of these anomalies, which further reduced the electrical power available to operate EchoStar XII. We currently operate EchoStar XII in CONUS/spot beam hybrid mode.
If we continue to operate the satellite in this mode, as a result of this loss of electrical power, we would be unable to use the full complement of its available transponders for the remaining useful
life of the satellite. However, since the number of useable transponders on EchoStar XII depends on, among other things, whether EchoStar XII is operated in CONUS, spot beam, or hybrid CONUS/spot beam
mode, we are unable to determine at this time the actual number of transponders that will be available at any given time or how many transponders can be used during the remaining estimated life of the
satellite. Additionally, there can be
no assurance that future anomalies will not cause further losses, which could impact the remaining useful life or commercial operation of EchoStar XII. As a result of the May 2009 anomalies on
EchoStar XII, we determined that we had a triggering event related to EchoStar XII. See discussion of evaluation of impairment in "Long-Lived Satellite Assets" in Note 6 in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on this triggering event we performed an impairment review of the satellite
using an undiscounted cash flow model and concluded that the estimated undiscounted cash flows associated with EchoStar XII were still in excess of its carrying value and therefore no impairment was
required. 

 Satellite Capacity Leased to/from DISH Network 

 Satellite Capacity Agreements.
 In connection with the Spin-off and subsequent to the Spin-off, we entered into certain satellite capacity
agreements pursuant to which DISH Network leases certain satellite capacity on certain satellites owned or leased by us. In December 2009, we entered into a satellite capacity agreement pursuant to
which we lease certain satellite capacity on a satellite owned by DISH Network. The fees for the services provided under these satellite capacity agreements depend, among other things, upon the
orbital location of the applicable satellite and the frequency on which the applicable satellite provides services. The term of each of the leases is set forth below: 

 EchoStar III, VI, VIII, and XII. 
DISH Network leases certain satellite capacity from us on EchoStar III, VI, VIII, and XII. The leases generally terminate upon the earlier of:
(i) the end of the life or the replacement of the satellite (unless we determine to renew on a year-to-year basis); (ii) the date the satellite fails;
(iii) the date the transponder on which service is being provided fails; or (iv) a certain date, which depends upon, among other things, the estimated useful life of the satellite,
whether the replacement satellite fails at launch or in orbit prior to being placed in service, and the exercise of certain renewal options. We generally have the option to renew each 

7

 

Table of Contents

lease
on a year-to-year basis through the end of the respective satellite's life. There can be no assurance that any options to renew such agreements will be exercised. 

 EchoStar I. 
We lease certain satellite capacity from DISH Network on EchoStar I. The lease generally terminates upon the earlier of: (i) the end of the
life or the replacement of the satellite (unless we determine to renew on a year-to-year basis); (ii) the date the satellite fails; (iii) the date the transponder
on which service is being provided fails; or (iv) a certain date, which depends upon, among other things, the estimated useful life of the satellite, whether the replacement satellite fails at
launch or in orbit prior to being placed in service, and the exercise of certain renewal options. We generally have the option to renew this lease on a year-to-year basis
through the end of the satellite's life. There can be no assurance that any options to renew this agreement will be exercised. 

 EchoStar XVI. 
DISH Network will lease certain satellite capacity from us on EchoStar XVI after its service commencement date and this lease generally terminates
upon the earlier of: (i) the end-of-life or replacement of the satellite; (ii) the date the satellite fails; (iii) the date the transponder(s) on which
service is being provided under the agreement fails; or (iv) ten years following the actual service commencement date. Upon expiration of the initial term, we have the option to renew on a
year-to-year basis through the end-of-life of the satellite. There can be no assurance that any options to renew this agreement will be exercised. 

 Leased Satellites 

 Nimiq 5.
 Nimiq 5 was launched in September 2009 and commenced commercial operation at the 72.7 degree orbital location during October 2009, where it provides
additional high-powered capacity to our satellite fleet. See Note 19 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K for further discussion. 

 Satellites Under Construction 

 QuetzSat-1.
 During 2008, we entered into a ten-year satellite service agreement with SES Latin America S.A. ("SES") to lease all of
the capacity on QuetzSat-1. QuetzSat-1 is expected to be launched in 2011 and will operate at the 77 degree orbital location. Upon expiration of the initial term, we have the
option to renew the transponder service agreement on a year-to-year basis through the end-of-life of the QuetzSat-1 satellite. DISH Network
has agreed to lease 24 of the 32 DBS transponders on this satellite from us. 

 EchoStar XVI.
 During November 2009, we entered into a contract for the construction of EchoStar XVI, a DBS satellite, which is expected to be completed during 2012
and will operate at the 61.5 degree orbital location. DISH Network has agreed to lease all of the capacity on this satellite from us for a portion of its useful life. 

 CMBStar.
 During 2008, we suspended construction of the CMBStar satellite and recorded an $85 million impairment. We continue to explore alternative uses for
this satellite, including potentially reconfiguring the satellite and shifting its proposed orbital location in a manner that would be more cost effective than designing and constructing a new
satellite. 

 GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS 

We are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FCC for our domestic operations. We are also regulated by other federal agencies, state and local
authorities, the International Telecommunication Union ("ITU") and certain foreign governments. Depending upon the circumstances, noncompliance with legislation or regulations promulgated by these
entities could result in suspension or revocation of our licenses or authorizations, the termination or loss of contracts or the imposition of contractual damages, civil fines or criminal penalties. 

8

 

 

Table of Contents
 

The following summary of regulatory developments and legislation in the United States is not intended to describe all present and proposed government regulation and legislation
affecting the satellite and digital set-top box equipment markets. Government regulations that are currently the subject of judicial or administrative proceedings, legislative hearings or
administrative proposals could change our industry to varying degrees. We cannot predict either the outcome of these proceedings or any potential impact they might have on the industry or on our
operations. 

 Regulations Applicable to Satellite Operations 

 FCC Jurisdiction over our Satellite Operations.
 The Communications Act gives the FCC broad authority to regulate the operations of satellite operators.
Specifically, the Communications Act gives the FCC regulatory jurisdiction over the following areas relating to communications satellite operations: 

•
the assignment of satellite radio frequencies and orbital locations; 
 

•
licensing of satellites, earth stations, the granting of related authorizations, and evaluation of the fitness of a
company to be a licensee; 
 

•
approval for the relocation of satellites to different orbital locations or the replacement of an existing satellite with
a new satellite; 
 

•
ensuring compliance with the terms and conditions of such assignments and authorizations, including required timetables
for construction and operation of satellites and other due diligence requirements; 
 

•
avoiding interference with other radio frequency emitters; and 
 

•
ensuring compliance with other applicable provisions of the Communications Act and FCC rules and regulations governing the
operations of satellite communications providers. 

To
obtain FCC satellite licenses and authorizations, satellite operators must satisfy strict legal, technical and financial qualification requirements. Once issued, these licenses and authorizations
are subject to a number of conditions including, among other things, satisfaction of ongoing due diligence obligations, construction milestones, and various reporting requirements. Applications for
new or modified satellites and earth stations are necessary for further development and expansion of satellites services. Necessary federal approval of these applications may not be granted, or may
not be granted in a timely manner. 

 Overview of Our Satellite Licenses and Authorizations.
 This overview describes our satellite licenses and authorizations. 

Our
satellites are located in orbital positions, or slots, that are designated by their western longitude. An orbital position describes both a physical location and an assignment of spectrum in the
applicable frequency band. Each transponder on our satellites typically exploits one frequency channel. Two of our satellites also include spot-beam technology which enables us to provide
services on a local or regional basis, but reduces the number of video channels that could otherwise be offered across the entire United States. 

We
have U.S. DBS licenses for 30 frequencies at the 61.5 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to the Eastern and Central United States. We are also currently operating on the two
unassigned frequencies at the 61.5 degree orbital location under a conditional special temporary authorization. That authority requires periodic renewal. The licensing of those two channels is under
FCC review, and also subject to an FCC moratorium on new DBS applications. The FCC has previously found that existing DBS providers will not be eligible for the two unassigned channels at the 61.5
degree orbital location. There is a pending petition for reconsideration of that decision. 

We
also have the FCC authority to provide service at a Mexican DBS orbital slot at the 77 degree orbital location and at a Canadian DBS orbital slot at the 72.7 degree orbital location. In addition,
we 

9

 

Table of Contents

hold
licenses or have entered into agreements to lease capacity on satellites at fixed satellite services orbital locations including: 

•
500 MHz of Ku spectrum divided into 32 frequencies at the 121 degree orbital location, capable of providing service to
CONUS, plus more than 500 MHz of Ka spectrum at the 121 degree orbital location capable of providing service into select spot beams; 
 

•
500 MHz of Ku spectrum divided into 24 frequencies at the 105 degree orbital location, currently capable of providing
service to CONUS, Alaska and Hawaii, plus at least 720 MHz of Ka spectrum capable of providing service into select spot beams; and 
 

•
500 MHz of Ku spectrum divided into 24 frequencies at the 85 degree orbital location, currently capable of providing
service to CONUS, plus at least 720 MHz of Ka spectrum capable of providing service into select spot beams. 

More
recently, we were granted authority for a "tweener" DBS satellite at the 86.5 degree orbital location. That authorization will be conditioned on final FCC licensing and service rules in the
"tweener" proceeding, in which the FCC is examining permitting satellites to operate from orbital locations 4.5 degrees (half of the usual nine degrees) away from traditional DBS satellites. The
FCC has also granted authorizations to Spectrum Five for a tweener satellite at the 114.5 degree orbital location. 

We
were also granted authority to launch and operate five satellites in the 17/24 GHz Broadcasting-Satellite Service ("BSS") at the 62.15, 75, 79, 107 and 110.4 degree orbital locations. These
authorizations are conditioned on the results of a pending rulemaking addressing potential interference between DBS and 17/24 GHz BSS operations. The FCC has also authorized DirecTV to operate a
satellite in the 17/24 GHz BSS band at 110.9 degrees, and therefore the available spectrum at the nominal 110 degrees orbital location is split equally between DirecTV and us. 

Use
of these licenses and conditional authorizations is subject to certain technical and due diligence requirements, including the requirement to construct and launch satellites according to specific
milestones and deadlines. There can be no assurance that we will develop acceptable plans to meet these deadlines, or that we will be able to utilize these orbital slots. 

Each
of our FSS and 17/24 GHz BSS satellite licenses is subject to a bond requirement of $3 million, all or part of which may be forfeited if we do not meet the milestones for a particular
satellite. In 2009, we surrendered our licenses for Ka-band satellites at the 97° W.L. and 113° W.L. orbital locations. We have requested that the bond funds for
these satellites be released to us rather than being paid to the FCC. We cannot be sure that the FCC will approve these requests. 

Before
we may launch and operate a satellite, the FCC must grant us a license. Under an FCC rule, if a licensee does not meet construction or launch milestones under three satellite licenses within
any three-year period, a rebuttable presumption is established that the licensee obtained one or more of those licenses for speculative purposes. As a result, the FCC will not grant any
further satellite license applications from that licensee beyond two pending applications and/or licensed-but-unbuilt satellites, unless the applicant is able to rebut that
presumption, the applicant demonstrates that it is likely to build and launch its satellites or the FCC grants a waiver. The FCC has also stated that the voluntary surrender of a satellite license
counts as a missed milestone. On May 27, 2009, the FCC dismissed our application for a C-band satellite at the 85 degree orbital location (without prejudice to refiling) on the
grounds that we had surrendered three satellite licenses within a three-year period. Unless we can convince the FCC to reconsider its decision, rebut the resulting presumption, make the
required demonstration or the FCC grants a waiver, we will need to wait until we have fewer than two pending applications and/or licensed-but-unbuilt satellites before the FCC
will grant us additional satellite licenses. We currently have several pending applications and/or licensed-but-unbuilt satellites, none of which are affected by the FCC's
dismissal of this application. We re-filed our application for a C-band 

10

 

Table of Contents

satellite
at the 85 degree orbital location on May 28, 2009. In our refiled application, we asked the FCC to reconsider its decision, we sought to rebut the presumption and make the required
demonstration, and we asked for a waiver of the rule. There can be no assurance that the FCC will grant our refiled application or that it will not dismiss any future satellite applications we may
file on the same grounds. 

In
addition, we have a number of modification, special temporary authority, and license applications pending with the FCC. We cannot be sure that the FCC will grant any of our applications, or that
the authorizations, if granted, will not be subject to onerous conditions. Moreover, the cost of building, launching and insuring a satellite can be as much as $300 million or more, and we
cannot be sure that we will be able to construct and launch all of the satellites for which we have requested authorizations. 

 Duration of our Satellite Licenses.
 Generally speaking, all of our satellite licenses are subject to expiration unless renewed by the FCC. The term of each of our
DBS licenses is 10 years; our FSS and 17/24 GHz BSS licenses generally are for 15 year terms. In addition, our special temporary authorizations are granted for periods of only
180 days or less, subject to possible renewal by the FCC. 

 Opposition and other Risks to our Licenses.
 Several third parties have opposed, and we expect them to continue to oppose, some of our FCC satellite authorizations
and pending requests to the FCC for extensions, modifications, waivers and approvals of our licenses. In addition, we may not have fully complied with all of the FCC reporting, filing and other
requirements in connection with our satellite authorizations. Consequently, it is possible the FCC could revoke, terminate, condition or decline to extend or renew certain of our authorizations or
licenses. 

 Reverse Band (17/24 GHz BSS) Spectrum.
 Recently authorized 17/24 GHz BSS operations may interfere with the uplink operations of DBS satellites. At this time, no
applications (other than our own application at 61.25 degrees) have been filed to operate a 17/24 GHz BSS satellite near our DBS satellites at 61.5 degrees. We cannot be certain that such an
application will not be filed in the future. Furthermore, the FCC has a pending rulemaking to decide how to protect DBS satellites from 17/24 GHz BSS operations, and we cannot predict if and how the
final rules will affect either our DBS operations at 61.5 degrees or our 17/24 GHz BSS authorizations. 

 Interference from Other Services Sharing Satellite Spectrum.
 The FCC has adopted rules that allow non-geostationary orbit satellite services to operate
on a co-primary basis in the same frequency band as DBS and Ku-band-based fixed satellite services. The FCC has also authorized the use of terrestrial communication
services ("MVDDS") in the DBS band. MVDDS licenses were auctioned in 2004. While, to our knowledge, no MVDDS systems have been commercially deployed, several systems are now being tested, and may soon
be deployed. Despite regulatory provisions to protect DBS operations from harmful interference, there can be no assurance that operations by other satellites or terrestrial communication services in
the DBS band will not interfere with our DBS operations and adversely affect our business. 

 International Satellite Competition and Interference.
 As noted above, we have received authority to provide service to the U.S. from a Mexican orbital slot at
77 degrees, and a Canadian orbital slot at 72.7 degrees. DirecTV and DISH Network L.L.C. have received similar authorizations to provide service to the U.S. from foreign orbital
slots. The possibility that the FCC will allow service to the U.S. from additional foreign slots may permit additional competition against us from other satellite providers. It may also provide a
means by which to increase our available satellite capacity in the United States. In addition, a number of administrations, such as Great Britain and The Netherlands, have requested to add orbital
locations serving the U.S. close to our licensed slots. Such operations could cause harmful interference into our satellites and constrain our future operations at those slots if such "tweener"
operations are approved by the FCC. The risk of harmful interference will depend upon the final rules adopted in the FCC's "tweener" proceeding. 

11

 

Table of Contents

 The International Telecommunication Union.
 Our satellites also must conform to ITU requirements and
regulations. We have cooperated, and continue to cooperate, with the FCC in the preparation of ITU filings and responses. We have "requests for modification" that have been filed by the United States
government relating to certain of our satellites. In the event such a "request for modification" is not granted by the ITU, we will have to enter into coordination agreements with adjacent operators
or operate the applicable satellite(s) on a non-interference basis. If we cannot enter into coordination agreements with adjacent operators or operate on a non-interference basis, we may have to cease
operating such satellite(s) at the affected orbital location. We cannot predict when the ITU will act upon these "requests for modifications". 

 Regulations Applicable to Our "Digital Set-Top Box" Business 

 FCC Jurisdiction over Set-Top Box Operations.
 Our digital set-top boxes and similar devices must also comply with FCC technical standards
and requirements. The FCC has specific Part 15 regulations for television broadcast receivers and television interface devices. 

 Plug and Play.
 Traditionally, cable companies sold or leased set-top boxes with integrated security functionality to subscribers. Cable companies were
required pursuant to the FCC's "plug and play" rules to separate the security functionality from their set-top boxes by July 1, 2007. The FCC's stated goal for these rules was to
increase competition and encourage the sale of set-top boxes in the retail market. The development of a retail market for cable set-top boxes could provide us with an
opportunity to expand sales of set-top boxes and related equipment for use in non-DBS households. The cable industry and consumer electronics companies have reached a "tru2way"
commercial arrangement to resolve many of the outstanding issues in the cable "plug and play" docket. EchoStar has licensed tru2way technology for use with cable set-top boxes.
DBS set-top boxes are not currently subject to separate security requirements. The FCC is considering an expansion of the scope of the cable "plug and play" rules, and
"all-video provider" set-top box solutions. We cannot predict whether the FCC will impose rules on DBS providers that are based on cable "plug and play" rules or the
concepts from the private tru2way commercial arrangement. If the FCC were to extend or expand its separate security rules or the tru2way commercial arrangement to include DBS providers, sales of our
set-top boxes to DBS providers may be negatively impacted. Specifically, if a retail DBS set-top box market develops capable of accepting removable security modules, we risk
reduced sales if competitors produce DBS set-top boxes. 

 Export Control Regulation 

We are required to obtain import and export licenses from the United States government to receive and deliver components of
direct-to-home satellite television systems. In addition, the delivery of satellites and the supply of certain related ground control equipment, technical data, and satellite
communication/control services to destinations outside the United States is subject to export control and prior approval requirements from the United States government (including prohibitions on the
sharing of certain satellite-related goods and services with China). 

 Broadband Service Regulation 

The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("ARRA") has allocated $7.2 billion to expand access to broadband services. Of this amount,
$2.5 billion is administered by the Rural Utilities Service ("RUS") for deployment of broadband projects in rural, unserved and underserved communities across the United States and
$4.7 billion has been allocated to the National Telecommunications and Information Administration ("NTIA") of the United States Department of Commerce to fund broadband initiatives throughout
the U.S, including unserved and underserved areas. Our proposals for broadband stimulus funds in the first round of funding were not granted. The agencies have announced a second round of funding that
will total several billion dollars. This will include a set-aside of at least 

12

 

Table of Contents

$100 million
for satellite projects. We are currently evaluating whether to submit second round applications for funding and we cannot be sure if any such applications will be granted, or that
they will be granted on acceptable terms. If any of our applications are granted and we accept the terms of such grant(s), we may become subject to certain regulations promulgated by the agencies. 

 PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS 

Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or
affect products or services related to those that we offer. In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products infringes valid intellectual property rights held by others, we may be
required to cease developing or marketing those products, obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material
cost, or redesign those products in such a way as to avoid infringement. If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to obtain a license to such intellectual
property at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position. 

We
may not be aware of all intellectual property rights that our products may potentially infringe. In addition, patent applications in the United States are confidential until the Patent and
Trademark Office either publishes the application or issues a patent (whichever arises first) and, accordingly, our products may infringe claims contained in pending patent applications of which we
are not aware. Further, the process of determining definitively whether a patent claim is valid and whether a particular product infringes a valid patent claim often involves expensive and protracted
litigation, even if we are ultimately successful on the merits. 

We
cannot estimate the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain intellectual property licenses or the availability and cost of any such licenses. Those costs, and their impact on our
results of operations, could be material. Damages in patent infringement cases may also be trebled in certain circumstances. To the extent that we are required to pay unanticipated royalties to third
parties, these increased costs of doing business could negatively affect our liquidity and operating results. We are currently defending multiple patent infringement actions. We cannot be certain the
courts will conclude these companies do not own the rights they claim, that these rights are not valid or that our products do not infringe on these rights. We also cannot be certain that we will be
able to obtain licenses from these persons on commercially reasonable terms or, if we were unable to obtain such licenses, that we would be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. See
"Item 3—Legal Proceedings." 

 ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS 

We are subject to the requirements of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations. These
include laws regulating air emissions, water discharge and waste management. We attempt to maintain compliance with all such requirements. We do not expect capital or other expenditures for
environmental compliance to be material in 2010 or 2011. Environmental requirements are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance
that these requirements will not change or become more stringent in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 GEOGRAPHIC AREA DATA AND TRANSACTIONS WITH MAJOR CUSTOMERS 

For principal geographic area data and transactions with major customers for 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Note 16 in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

13

 

Table of Contents

 EMPLOYEES 

We have approximately 2,400 employees. In addition, DISH Network provides us with certain management and administrative services, which include the
services of certain employees of DISH Network. See "Certain Intercompany Agreements—Management Services Agreement and Professional Services Agreement" set forth in our Proxy Statement for
the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions." 

 WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION 

We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act and accordingly file an annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The public may read
and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. As an electronic filer, our public filings are also maintained on the SEC's Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov. 

 WEBSITE ACCESS 

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K
and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act also may be accessed free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably
practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC. The address of that website is http://www.echostar.com. 

We
have adopted a written code of ethics that applies to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers, in accordance with the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated thereunder. Our code of ethics is available on our corporate website at http://www.echostar.com. In the
event that we make changes in, or provide waivers of, the provisions of this code of ethics that the SEC requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events on our website. 

 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
(furnished in accordance with Item 401 (b) of Regulation S-K, pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K) 

The
following table sets forth the name, age and position with EchoStar of each of our executive officers, the period during which each executive officer has served as such, and each executive
officer's business experience during the past five years: 

Name

 

Age 

 

Position 

 
R. Stanton Dodge

 

 

42

 

Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Director

 
Michael T. Dugan

 

 

61

 

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director

 
Charles W. Ergen

 

 

57

 

Chairman

 
Bernard L. Han

 

 

45

 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

 
Mark W. Jackson

 

 

49

 

President, EchoStar Technologies L.L.C.

 
Roger J. Lynch

 

 

47

 

Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies

 
Dean A. Olmstead

 

 

54

 

President, EchoStar Satellite Services

 
Steven B. Schaver

 

 

55

 

President, EchoStar International Corporation

14

 

Table of Contents

 R. Stanton Dodge.
 Mr. Dodge is currently the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of DISH Network and EchoStar and is responsible for all
legal and government affairs of DISH Network, EchoStar and their subsidiaries. Mr. Dodge also serves as a member of our Board of Directors. Mr. Dodge serves as our Executive Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary pursuant to a management services agreement between DISH Network and EchoStar that was entered into in connection with the Spin-off of EchoStar
from DISH Network. Since joining DISH Network in November 1996, he has held various positions of increasing responsibility in DISH Network's legal department, and assumed responsibility for human
resources at DISH Network in January 2010. 

 Michael T. Dugan.
 Mr. Dugan was named President and Chief Executive Officer of EchoStar in November 2009. Mr. Dugan also serves as a member of our
Board of Directors. Mr. Dugan served as a senior advisor to EchoStar since the Spin-off of EchoStar from DISH Network on January 1, 2008. From May 2004 to December 2007, he
was a Director of DISH Network, and served DISH Network alternately as Chief Technical Officer and senior advisor from time to time. 

 Charles W. Ergen.
 Mr. Ergen serves as our Chairman. Mr. Ergen served as our Chief Executive Officer from our formation in 2007 until November 2009.
Mr. Ergen is also the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of DISH Network Corporation, a position that he has held since DISH Network's formation in 1980. During the past ten years
he has also held various executive officer and director positions with DISH Network's subsidiaries. 

 Bernard L. Han.
 Mr. Han serves as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and is currently responsible for all accounting, finance and
information technology functions of EchoStar. Mr. Han serves as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to a management services agreement between DISH Network and
EchoStar that was entered into in connection with the Spin-off. Mr. Han also serves as Chief Operating Officer of DISH Network. From October 2002 to May 2005, Mr. Han served
as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Northwest Airlines, Inc. 

 Mark W. Jackson.
 Mr. Jackson is currently the President of EchoStar Technologies L.L.C. and oversees all day to day operations of our "Digital
Set-Top Box" business. Mr. Jackson served as the President of EchoStar Technologies Corporation from June 2004 through December 2007. 

 Roger J. Lynch.
 Mr. Lynch has served as our Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies since November 2009. Mr. Lynch also serves as Executive
Vice President, Advanced Technologies at DISH Network. Prior to joining EchoStar, Mr. Lynch served as Chairman and CEO of Video Networks International, Ltd., an IPTV technology company
in the United Kingdom from 2002 through 2009. 

 Dean A. Olmstead.
 Mr. Olmstead joined EchoStar as President of EchoStar Satellite Services in January 2008 and is responsible for all aspects of our
"Satellite Services" business. From May 2006 until January 2008, Mr. Olmstead served as an advisor to Loral Space & Communications ("Loral") on strategic and growth opportunities for
Loral's satellite service businesses, which completed a merger with Telesat in October 2007, and he served on Loral's Board of Directors. From March 2005 to September 2006, he was President of
Arrowhead Global Solutions, which was acquired by CapRock Communications in May 2007. Prior to March 2005, Mr. Olmstead was President and CEO of SES Americom and a member of the SES
Global Executive Committee. 

 Steven B. Schaver.
 Mr. Schaver was named President of EchoStar International Corporation in April 2000. Mr. Schaver served as DISH Network's Chief
Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer from 1996 to 2000. 

There
are no arrangements or understandings between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which any executive officer was selected as such. Pursuant to the Bylaws of EchoStar,
executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. 

15

 

Table of Contents
 

 

 
 
 
Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 
 

The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are
unaware of or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition or results of
operation could be materially and adversely affected.

 General Risks Affecting Our Business 

 Weak economic conditions, including high unemployment and reduced consumer spending, may adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our business. 

Our ability to grow or maintain our business may be adversely affected by weak economic conditions, including the effect of wavering consumer
confidence, high unemployment and other factors that may adversely affect the "Digital Set-Top Box" business and providers of pay-TV services, who are our primary customers. In
particular, the weak economic conditions may result in the following: 

•
Decreased
Demand.
 Subscribers to pay-TV services may delay purchasing decisions or reduce or reallocate their discretionary spending,
which may in turn decrease demand for programming packages from pay TV providers that include set top box equipment manufactured by us. 
 

•
Increased Pricing
Pressure.
 Increased pricing pressures, which may result in reduced margins for pay-TV companies, including DISH Network and
Bell TV, our primary customers, may reduce demand for high-end digital set top boxes on which we earn higher gross margins. Furthermore, pay-TV companies may increasingly look
to make purchases from foreign set-top box suppliers primarily located in Asia with lower-priced products as their customers become more cost-sensitive in making purchase
decisions as a result of weak economic conditions. 
 

•
Excess Inventories and Satellite
Capacity.
 There is an increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories as a result of possible lower demand for pay-TV
services and the resultant lower demand for digital set-top boxes from pay-TV companies. We may also have excess satellite capacity resulting from possible decreased demand for
pay-TV services and other services utilizing satellite transmission. 
 

•
Increased Impairment
Charges.
 Prolonged weak economic conditions could result in substantial future impairment charges relating to, among other things,
satellites, FCC authorizations, and our debt and equity investments. 

 We currently depend on DISH Network Corporation, or DISH Network, and Bell TV for substantially all of our revenue. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from
or a decrease in selling prices of digital set-top boxes, transponder leasing, digital broadcast operations and/or other products or services to, DISH Network or Bell TV would
significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our results of operations. 

DISH Network accounted for approximately 81.3%, 86.5% and 83.8% of our revenue in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. In addition, Bell TV accounted for approximately 10.5%, 8.4% and 10.7% of our revenue in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Any reduction in sales to
DISH Network or Bell TV or in the prices they pay for the products and services they purchase from us could have a significant negative impact on our business. In addition, because substantially all
of our revenue is tied to DISH Network and Bell TV, our success also depends to a significant degree on the continued success of DISH Network and Bell TV in attracting new subscribers and in
marketing programming packages to subscribers that will require the purchase of new digital set-top boxes, and in particular, new digital set-top boxes at the
high-end of our product range that incorporate high-definition, multiple tuners and other advanced technology. Moreover, DISH Network has no future obligation to purchase
digital set-top boxes from us and existing orders may be cancelled or reduced on short notice. Cancellations or reductions of 

16

 

Table of Contents

customer
orders, which could rise in weak economic conditions, could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses. 

In
addition, the timing of orders for digital set-top boxes from these two customers could vary significantly depending on equipment promotions these customers offer to their subscribers,
changes in technology, and their use of remanufactured digital set-top boxes, which may cause our revenue to vary significantly quarter over quarter and could expose us to the risks of
inventory shortages or excess inventory. These inventory risks are particularly acute during end product transitions in which a new generation of digital set-top boxes is being deployed
and inventory of older generation digital set-top boxes is at a higher risk of obsolescence. This in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. Any reduction of
customer orders for digital set-top boxes caused by the weak economic conditions may accentuate such risks. Furthermore, because of the competitive nature of the digital
set-top box business, the limited number of potential new customers and the short-term nature of our purchase orders with DISH Network and BellTV, we could in the future
experience downward pricing pressure on our digital set-top boxes to DISH Network or BellTV, which in turn would adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. 

DISH
Network is currently our primary customer of digital set-top boxes and digital broadcast operation services. These products and services are provided pursuant to contracts that
generally expire on January 1, 2011. However, DISH may renew those contracts in their discretion for up to one additional year. Thereafter, if we are unable to extend those contracts on similar
terms with
DISH Network, or if we are otherwise unable to obtain acceptable contracts from third parties following a termination by DISH, there could be a significant adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial position. 

There
are a relatively small number of potential new customers for our digital set-top boxes, satellite services and digital broadcast operations, and we expect this customer concentration
to continue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the continued success of these
customers. In addition, we may from time to time enter into customer agreements providing for exclusivity periods during which we may sell a specified product only to that customer. If we do not
develop relationships with new customers, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenue. 

Historically,
many of our potential customers have perceived us as a competitor due to our affiliation with DISH Network. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into any
commercial relationships with potential customers who are competitors of DISH Network (particularly if we continue to be perceived as affiliated with DISH Network as a result of common ownership and
management). 

 If we are unsuccessful in overturning the District Court's ruling on Tivo's motion for contempt, we are not successful in developing and deploying potential new alternative
technology and we are unable to reach a license agreement with Tivo on reasonable terms, we would be subject to substantial liability and would be prohibited from offering DVR functionality that would
in turn place us at a significant disadvantage to our competitors and significantly decrease sales of digital set-top boxes to DISH Network and others. 

In June 2009, the United States District Court granted Tivo's motion for contempt finding that our next-generation DVRs continue to
infringe Tivo's intellectual property and awarded Tivo an additional $103 million dollars in supplemental damages and interest for the period from September 2006 through April 2008. In
September 2009, the District Court partially granted Tivo's motion for contempt sanctions. In partially granting Tivo's motion for contempt sanctions, the District Court awarded $2.25 per DVR
subscriber per month for the period from April 2008 to July 2009 (as compared to the award for supplemental damages for the prior period from September 2006 to April 2008, which was based on an
assumed $1.25 per DVR subscriber per month). By the District Court's estimation, the 

17

 

Table of Contents

total
award for the period from April 2008 to July 2009 is approximately $200 million (the enforcement of the award has been stayed by the District Court pending our appeal of the underlying
June 2009 contempt order). 

If
we are unsuccessful in overturning the District Court's ruling on Tivo's motion for contempt, we are not successful in developing and deploying potential new alternative technology and we are
unable to reach a license agreement with Tivo on reasonable terms, we would be required to cease distribution of digital set-top boxes with DVR functionality. In that event, our sales of
digital set-top boxes to DISH Network and others would likely significantly decrease and could even potentially cease for a period of time. Furthermore, the inability to offer DVR
functionality would place us at a significant disadvantage to our competitors and make it even more difficult for us to penetrate new markets for digital set-top boxes. The adverse effect
on our financial position and results of operations if the District Court's contempt order is upheld is likely to be significant. 

If
we are successful in overturning the District Court's ruling on Tivo's motion for contempt, but unsuccessful in defending against any subsequent claim that our original alternative technology or
any potential new alternative technology infringes Tivo's patent, we could be prohibited from distributing DVRs. In that event we would be at a significant disadvantage to our competitors who could
continue offering DVR functionality and the adverse effect on our business could be material. 

Because
both we and DISH Network are defendants in the Tivo lawsuit, we and DISH Network are jointly and severally liable to Tivo for any final damages and sanctions that may be awarded by the
District Court. DISH Network has agreed with us that it is obligated under the agreements entered into in connection with the Spin-off to indemnify us for substantially all liability
arising from this lawsuit. We have agreed to contribute an amount equal to our $5 million intellectual property liability limit under the Receiver Agreement. We and DISH Network have further
agreed that our $5 million contribution would not exhaust our liability to DISH Network for other intellectual property claims that may arise under the Receiver Agreement. Therefore, during the
second quarter of 2009, we recorded a charge included in "General and administrative expenses—DISH Network" on our Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) of
$5 million to reflect this contribution. We and DISH Network also agreed that we would each be entitled to joint ownership of, and a cross-license to use, any intellectual property developed in
connection with any potential new alternative technology. 

Because
we are jointly and severally liable with DISH Network, to the extent that DISH Network does not or is unable to pay any damages or sanctions arising from this lawsuit, we would then be liable
for any portion of these damages and sanctions not paid by DISH Network. Any amounts that DISH Network may be required to pay could impair its ability to pay us and also negatively impact our future
liquidity. 

If
we become liable for any portion of these damages or sanctions, we may be required to raise additional capital at a time and in circumstances in which we would normally not raise capital.
Therefore, any capital we raise may be on terms that are unfavorable to us, which might adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and might also impair our ability to raise
capital on acceptable terms in the future to fund our own operations and initiatives. 

 Adverse developments in DISH Network's business may adversely affect us. 

If DISH Network's gross subscriber additions are adversely affected by the weak economic conditions in the U.S, or for any other reason, we may
experience a decline in our sales of digital set-top boxes to DISH Network. 

18

 

Table of Contents

 We currently have substantial unused satellite capacity, and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected if we are not able to utilize more of this
capacity. 

While we are currently evaluating various opportunities to make profitable use of our satellite capacity (including, but not limited to, supplying
satellite capacity for new international ventures), we do not have firm plans to utilize all of our satellite capacity. In addition, especially in light of a possible decrease in demand for satellite
services as a result of the weak economic conditions, there can be no assurance that we can successfully develop the business opportunities we currently plan to pursue with this capacity. If we are
unable to lease our excess satellite capacity, our margins would be negatively impacted and we may be required to record additional impairments related to our other satellites. 

 As a result of our Spin-off from DISH Network, our financial statements for 2007 do not reflect all the assets and lines of business that are reflected in our
2008 and 2009 financial statements, potentially making it more difficult to compare growth and other metrics in 2008 and 2009 with prior periods. 

The financial information included in this report for 2007, which was prior to the Spin-off, does not reflect the financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as an independent publicly-traded company during 2007. This is primarily a result of the following factors: 

•
Our profits during 2007 do not accurately reflect our operations following the Spin-off as the majority of our
operations in 2007 were in support of DISH Network and we provided our products and services to DISH Network at cost during 2007. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability, or
that we can grow our business profitably or at all. 
 

•
The financial condition and results of operations of our "Satellite Services" business are not reflected in our historical
financial information for 2007, because our "Satellite Services" business was operated as an integral part of DISH Network's subscription television business and did not constitute a "business" in the
historical financial statements of DISH Network. 
 

•
Sling Media, Inc., one of our subsidiaries, was acquired shortly before the Spin-off, in October 2007,
and it was operated for only a short period by us prior to the effective date of the Spin-off on January 1, 2008. 
 

•
Our financial results prior to the Spin-off reflect allocations of corporate expenses from DISH Network. Those
allocations may be different from the comparable expenses we would have incurred had we operated as an independent publicly traded company. 
 

•
Our working capital requirements and capital required for our general corporate purposes were satisfied prior to the
Spin-off as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of DISH Network. Following the Spin-off, DISH Network ceased to provide us with funds to finance our
working capital or other cash requirements. 
 

•
There are significant differences between our cost structure, financing and business operations before and after the
Spin-off. 

 Our sales to DISH Network could be terminated or substantially curtailed on short notice which would have a detrimental effect on us. 

DISH Network has no obligations to continue to purchase our products and only certain obligations to continue to purchase certain of our services.
Therefore, our relationship with DISH Network could be terminated or substantially curtailed with little or no advance notice. Any material reduction in our sales to DISH Network would have a
significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. 

19

 

Table of Contents

Furthermore,
because there are a relatively small number of potential customers for our products and services, if we lose DISH Network as a customer, it will be difficult for us to replace our
historical revenues from DISH Network. 

 We may need additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, to continue investing in our business and to finance acquisitions and other
strategic transactions. 

We may need to raise additional capital in the future to among other things, continue investing in our business, construct and launch new satellites,
and pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions. 

Weak
financial markets have continued to make it difficult for certain borrowers to access capital markets at acceptable terms or at all. Instability in the equity markets could make it difficult for
us to raise equity financing without incurring substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. In particular, it may be difficult for us to raise debt financing on acceptable terms in light of the
fact that we have never previously raised debt financing. In addition, weak economic conditions may limit our ability to generate sufficient internal cash to fund investments, capital expenditures,
acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We cannot predict with any certainty whether or not we will be impacted by weak economic conditions. As a result, these conditions make it difficult for
us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities because we may not have access to funding sources necessary for us to pursue organic and strategic business development opportunities. 

 We may experience significant financial losses on our existing investments. 

We have entered into certain strategic transactions and investments in North America, Asia and elsewhere. These investments involve a high degree of
risk and could diminish our ability to fund our stock buyback program, invest capital in our business or return capital to our shareholders. The current volatility in the financial markets and overall
economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity investments will differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them.
These investments could also expose us to significant financial losses and may restrict our ability to make other investments or limit alternative uses of our capital resources. In particular, the
laws, regulations and practices of certain
countries may make it harder for our investments to be successful. If our investments suffer losses, whether or not as a result of the current weak financial market condition, our financial condition
could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the companies in which we invest or with whom we partner may not be able to compete effectively or there may be insufficient demand for the
services and products offered by these companies. 

 We may pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions to complement or expand our business which may not be successful and we may lose up to the entire value of our
investment in these acquisitions and transactions. 

Our future success may depend on the existence of, and our ability to capitalize on, opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies or partner
with other companies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might may otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures or
other business combination activities to complement or expand our business. In addition, we have entered, and may continue to enter, into strategic transactions and investments in North America, Asia
and elsewhere. Any such acquisitions, transactions or investments that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the
following: 

•
the diversion of our management's attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the
acquired or combined business or joint venture; 
 

•
possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; 

20

 

Table of Contents

•
these transactions, which could become substantial over time, involve a high degree of risk and could expose us to
significant financial losses if the underlying ventures are not successful; and/or we are unable to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. 

New
acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions may require the commitment of significant capital that would otherwise be directed to investments in our existing businesses or be distributed
to shareholders. Commitment of this capital may cause us to defer or suspend any share repurchases or capital expenditures that we otherwise may have made. 

 We intend to make significant investments in new products, services, technologies and business areas that may not be profitable. 

We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products, services and related
technologies, including new digital set-top box designs, as well as entry into new business areas. Investments in new technologies and business areas are inherently speculative and
commercial success thereof depends on numerous factors including innovativeness, quality of service and support, and effectiveness of sales and marketing. We may not achieve revenue or profitability
from such investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, even if such products, services, technologies and business area become profitable, their operating margins may be minimal. 

 We are party to various lawsuits which, if adversely decided, could have a significant adverse impact on our business, particularly lawsuits regarding intellectual property. 

We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. Many entities, including some of our
competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that we offer. In general, if a court determines
that one or more of our products infringes valid intellectual property rights held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those products, to obtain licenses from the holders of
the intellectual property at a material cost, or to redesign those products in such a way as to avoid infringement. If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to
license the necessary intellectual property rights at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Please see further discussion under 
Item 1.
Business—Patents and Trademarks
 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

 We have not been an independent company for a significant amount of time and we may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary
to operate as an independent company. 

Prior to our Spin-off from DISH Network, our business was operated by DISH Network as part of its broader corporate organization, rather
than as an
independent company. DISH Network's senior management oversaw the strategic direction of our businesses and DISH Network performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited
to: 

•
selected human resources related functions; 
 

•
accounting; 
 

•
tax administration; 
 

•
legal and external reporting; 
 

•
treasury administration, investor relations, internal audit and insurance functions; and 
 

•
selected information technology and telecommunications services. 

21

 

 

Table of Contents
 

Because we are now an independent company, neither DISH Network nor any of its affiliates have any obligation to provide these functions to us other than those services
provided pursuant to the management services agreement and the professional services agreement between us and DISH Network. See "Related Party Transactions with DISH Network—Professional
Services Agreement" and "Related Party Transactions with DISH Network—Management Services Agreement" set forth in our Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions." If, once the management services agreement and the professional services agreement terminate, we do not have in place our own
systems and business functions, we do not have agreements with other providers of these services or we are not able to make these changes cost effectively, we may not be able to operate our business
effectively and our profitability may decline. If DISH Network does not continue to perform effectively the services that are called for under the management services agreement and the professional
services agreement, we may not be able to operate our business effectively. Although DISH Network has no obligation to provide us services after expiration of the management services agreement and the
professional services agreement, we anticipate continuing to receive services from DISH Network following the initial terms of these agreements, and may enter into subsequent similar agreements if we
determine that it is beneficial for us to do so. 

 If we are unable to properly respond to technological changes, our business could be significantly harmed. 

Our businesses change rapidly as new technologies are developed. If we are unable to properly respond to technological developments, our existing
products may become obsolete and demand for our products may decline. For example, if changes in technology allow digital television subscribers to use devices such as personal computers, cable ready
televisions or network based digital video recording services in place of set-top boxes, our customers may not need to purchase our digital set-top boxes to provide their
digital television subscribers with digital video recording and other digital set-top box features. Our competitors may also introduce technologies that compete favorably with our digital
set-top boxes or that cause our digital set-top boxes to no longer be of significant benefit to our customers. 

We
and our suppliers may not be able to keep pace with technological developments. If we fail to timely obtain such technologies from our suppliers or introduce products and services with superior
technologies, if the new technologies developed by us or our partners fail to achieve sustained acceptance in the marketplace or become obsolete, or if our competitors obtain or develop proprietary
technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior to ours, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our future competitive position that could in turn decrease our revenues and
earnings. Further, after we have incurred substantial research and development costs, one or more of the technologies under our development, or under development by one or more of our strategic
partners, could become obsolete prior to its introduction. 

Our
response to technological development depends, to a significant degree, on the work by technically skilled employees. Competition for the services of such employees is intense. Although we have
strived to attract and retain these employees, we may not succeed in this respect. If we are unable to attract and retain technically skilled employees, we may not be able to properly respond to
changes in technologies and, as a result, our competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. 

 We rely on key personnel and the loss of their services may negatively affect our businesses. 

We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent upon the performance of Mr. Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, and certain
other executives. Certain of these executives will also continue to devote significant time to their employment at DISH Network. The loss of Mr. Ergen or of certain other key executives or the
ability of these certain other key executives to devote sufficient time and effort to our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and 

22

 

Table of Contents

results
of operations. Although all of our executives will have certain agreements limiting their ability to work for or consult with competitors if they leave us, we do not have employment agreements
with any of them. 

 Risks Affecting Our "Digital Set-Top Box" Business 

 We depend on sales of digital set-top boxes for nearly all of our revenue and a decline in sales of our digital set-top boxes would have a material
adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 

Our historical revenues consist primarily of sales of our digital set-top boxes. In addition, we currently derive, and expect to continue
to derive in the near term, nearly all of our revenue from sales of our digital set-top boxes to DISH Network and Bell TV. If the weak economic conditions persist, demand for digital
set-top boxes from our two significant customers could decrease and, consequently, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. 

Furthermore,
continued market acceptance of our digital set-top boxes is critical to our future success. If we are not able to expand sales of our digital set-top boxes to
other providers of digital television, including cable operators, which is harder to accomplish in weak economic conditions, and as a result of many potential customers perceiving us as a competitor
due to our affiliation with DISH Network, our growth prospects will be limited, and our revenues will be
substantially impacted if sales of our digital set-top boxes to providers of satellite-delivered digital television decline. 

 Our business may suffer if direct-to-home satellite service providers, who currently comprise our customer base, do not compete successfully with
existing and emerging alternative platforms for delivering digital television, including cable television operators, terrestrial broadcasters and IPTV. 

Our existing customers are direct-to-home satellite video providers, which compete with cable television operators and
terrestrial broadcasters for the same pool of viewers. As technologies develop, other means of delivering information and entertainment to television viewers are evolving. For example, some
telecommunications companies, such as AT&T and Verizon Communications, are seeking to compete with terrestrial broadcasters, cable television network operators and
direct-to-home satellite services by offering IPTV, which allows telecommunications companies to stream television programs through telephone lines or fiber optic lines. These
telecommunications companies are upgrading their older copper wire telephone lines with high-bandwidth fiber optic lines in larger markets. These fiber lines provide significantly greater
capacity, enabling the telecommunications companies to offer substantial HD programming content. In addition, cable operators are increasingly offering on-demand television services to
compete against the programming packages offered by direct-to-home satellite video providers. To the extent that the terrestrial broadcasters, telecommunications companies and
cable television network operators compete successfully against direct-to-home satellite services for viewers, the ability of our existing customer base to attract and retain
subscribers may be adversely affected. As a result, demand for our satellite television digital set-top boxes could decline and we may not be able to sustain our current revenue levels. 

 Our future financial performance depends in part on our ability to penetrate new markets for digital set-top boxes. 

Our products were initially designed for, and have been deployed mostly by, providers of satellite-delivered digital television. To date, we have not
made any significant sales of our digital set-top boxes to cable operators. In addition, the cable set-top box market is highly competitive and we expect competition to
intensify in the future. In particular, we believe that most cable set-top boxes are sold by a small number of well entrenched competitors who have long-standing relationships
with cable operators. This competition, and our perception by many potential customers as a competitor due to our affiliation with DISH Network, may make it more difficult for us to sell cable
set-top boxes, and 

23

 

Table of Contents

may
result in pricing pressure, low profit margins, high sales and marketing expenses and limited market share, any of which could, to a certain extent, adversely affect our business, operating
results and financial condition. 

 We may be exposed to the risk of inflation or stable component pricing which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

The substantial majority of our revenues are derived from the sale of digital set-top boxes. A significant portion of the production
costs of digital set-top boxes relate to the purchase of electronic components, the costs of which have historically fallen over time. To the extent that component pricing does not decline
or is impacted by inflation, we may not be able to pass on the impact of increasing raw materials prices or labor and other costs, to our customers, and we may not be able to operate profitably. For
example, we entered into a digital set-top box contract extension with Bell TV under which we supply digital set-top boxes to Bell TV at fixed prices over the duration of the
contract. Under this fixed-price arrangement, we bear any risk of inflation because we are not able to pass any increase in our component pricing on to Bell TV. 

 The average selling price and gross margins of our digital set-top boxes has been decreasing and may decrease even further, which could negatively impact our
financial position and results of operations. 

The average selling price and gross margins of our digital set-top boxes has been decreasing and may decrease even further due to, among
other things, an increase in the sales of lower-priced digital set top boxes to DISH Network and increased
pricing pressure on our average selling prices, including sales to BellTV as a result of our contract extension with BellTV. Furthermore, our ability to increase the average selling prices of our
digital set-top boxes is limited and our average selling price may decrease even further in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors,
lack of demand for our new product introductions or other factors. If we are unable to increase or at least maintain the average selling prices of our digital set-top boxes, or if such
selling prices further decline, and we are unable to respond in a timely manner by developing and introducing new products and continually reducing our product costs, our revenues and gross margin may
be negatively affected, which will harm our financial position and results of operations. 

 Our ability to sell our digital set-top boxes to other operators depends on our ability to obtain licenses to use the conditional access systems utilized by
these other operators. 

Our commercial success in selling our digital set-top boxes to cable television operators depends significantly on our ability to obtain
licenses to use the conditional access systems deployed by these operators in our digital set-top boxes. In many cases, the intellectual property rights to these conditional access systems
are owned by the set-top box manufacturer that currently provides the cable television operator with its set-top boxes. We cannot assure you that we will able to obtain
required licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain the necessary licenses, we may be delayed or prevented from pursuing the development of some potential products with
cable television operators. Our failure to obtain a license to use the conditional access systems that we may require to develop or commercialize our digital set-top boxes with cable
television operators in turn, would harm our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. 

 Growth in our "Digital Set-Top Box" business likely requires expansion of our sales to international customers, and we may be unsuccessful in expanding
international sales. 

We believe that to grow our digital set-top box revenue and business and to build a large customer base, we must increase sales of our
digital set-top boxes in international markets. We have had limited success in selling our digital set-top boxes internationally. To succeed in these sales efforts, we believe
we must hire additional sales personnel and develop and manage new relationships with cable 

24

 

Table of Contents

operators
and other providers of digital television in international markets. In addition, we may be subject to greater risks than our competitors as a result of such international expansion. We could
be harmed financially and operationally by tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers that may be imposed on our products or services, or by political and economic instability in the countries in which
we provide service. If we ever need to pursue legal remedies against our customers or our business partners
located outside of the United States, it may be difficult for us to enforce our rights against them. Furthermore, we may be subject to currency risks with respect to payments from our international
customers and our international customers may have difficulty obtaining U.S. currency and/or remitting payment due to currency exchange controls. 

If
we do not succeed in our efforts to sell to these target markets and customers and deal with these challenges in our international operations, the size of our total addressable market may be
limited. This, in turn, would harm our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. 

 The digital set-top box business is extremely competitive. 

Currently, there are many significant competitors in the set-top box business including several established companies who have sold
set-top boxes to major cable operators in the United States for many years. These competitors include companies such as Motorola, Cisco Systems, which owns Scientific Atlanta, Pace and
Technicolor. In addition, a number of rapidly growing companies have recently entered the market, many of them with set-top box offerings similar to our existing satellite
set-top box products. We also expect additional competition in the future from new and existing companies who do not currently compete in the market for set-top boxes. As the
set-top box business evolves, our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including software and hardware
companies that could acquire significant market share, which could adversely affect our business. We also face competition from set-top boxes that have been internally developed by digital
video providers. Any of these competitive threats, alone or in combination with others, could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 

 We expect to continue to face competition from new market entrants, principally located in Asia, that offer low cost set-top boxes. 

The set-top box market is intensely competitive, and market leadership changes frequently as a result of new products, designs and
pricing. We expect to face additional competition from companies, principally located in Asia, which offer low cost set-top boxes, including set-top boxes that are modeled
after our products or products of our principal competitors. The entry of these new competitors may result in increased pricing pressure in the market. If market prices are substantially reduced by
such new entrants, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In particular, it may be difficult for us to make profitable sales in
international markets where these new competitors are present and in which we have not previously made sales of set-top boxes. 

If
we do not continue to distinguish our products, particularly our retail products, through distinctive, technologically advanced features and design, as well as continue to build and strengthen our
brand recognition, our business could be harmed as we may not be able to effectively compete on price alone against new low cost market entrants that are principally located in Asia. If we do not
otherwise compete effectively, demand for our products could decline, our gross margins could decrease, we could lose market share, and our revenues and earnings could decline. 

 Our digital set-top boxes are highly complex and may experience quality or supply problems. 

Our digital set-top boxes are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture or associated software. Set-top
boxes often contain "bugs" that can unexpectedly interfere with their operation. 

25

 

Table of Contents

Defects
may also occur in components and products that we purchase from third-parties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to detect and fix all defects in the digital set-top
boxes that we sell. We could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and harm to our reputation if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing or warranty repairs. 

 If significant numbers of television viewers are unwilling to pay for premium programming packages that utilize digital set-top boxes, we may not be able to
sustain our current revenue level. 

We are substantially dependent upon the ability of our customers to promote the delivery of premium programming packages that utilize technology
incorporated into our digital set-top boxes, such as HD technology and IPTV, to generate future revenues. 

However,
our customers may be unsuccessful in promoting value-added services or may promote alternative packages, such as free programming packages, in lieu of promoting packages that utilize our
high-end digital set-top box offerings. If our customers are unable to develop and effectively market compelling reasons for their subscribers to continue to purchase our more
advanced digital set-top boxes, it will be difficult for us to sustain our historical revenues. This risk is exacerbated by the weak economic conditions under which consumers become more
cost-sensitive in their discretionary spending. 

 Our reliance on a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers for several key components used in our digital set-top boxes could restrict production and
result in higher digital set-top box costs. 

We obtain many components for our digital set-top boxes from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on a single
or limited group of suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our increasing reliance on subcontractors, involves several risks. These risks include a potential inability to obtain an adequate
supply of required components, and reduced control over pricing, quality, and timely delivery of these components. We do not generally maintain long-term agreements with any of our
suppliers or subcontractors. An inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstances requiring us to seek alternative sources of supply could affect our ability to ship our digital
set-top boxes on a timely basis, which could damage our relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business, resulting in a loss of market share, and reduce revenues
and income. 

We
generally maintain low inventory levels and do not make binding long-term commitments to suppliers. As a result, it may be difficult in the future to obtain components required for our
products or to increase the volume of components if demand for our products increases. 

The
weak economic conditions may cause certain suppliers that we rely on to cease operations which, in turn, may cause us to suffer disruptions to our supply chain or incur higher production costs. 

 Our future growth depends on growing demand for HDTV. 

Future demand for our digital set-top boxes will depend significantly on the growing demand for high definition television, or HDTV. The
effective delivery of HDTV will depend on digital television operators developing and building infrastructure to provide wide-spread HDTV programming. If the deployment of or demand for
HDTV, is not as widespread or as rapid as we or our customers expect, our revenue growth will be limited. 

 Risks Affecting Our "Satellite Services" Business 

 We currently face competition from established competitors in the satellite service business and may face competition from others in the future. 

In our "Satellite Services" business, we compete against larger, well-established satellite service companies, such as Intelsat, SES
Americom and Telesat Holdings. Because the satellite services 

26

 

Table of Contents

industry
is relatively mature, our growth strategy depends largely on our ability to displace current incumbent providers, which often have the benefit of long-term contracts with
customers. These long-term contracts and other factors result in relatively high switching costs for customers, making it more difficult for us to displace customers from their current
relationships with our competitors. In addition, the supply of satellite capacity has increased in recent years, which makes it more difficult for us to sell our services in certain markets and to
price our capacity at acceptable levels. Competition may cause downward pressure on prices and further reduce the utilization of our fleet capacity, both of which could have an adverse effect on our
financial performance. Our "Satellite Services" business also competes with fiber optic cable and other terrestrial delivery systems, which may have a cost advantage, particularly in
point-to-point applications where such delivery systems have been installed. 

 Our owned and leased satellites in orbit are subject to significant operational and environmental risks that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. 

Satellites are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, which
have occurred in our satellites and the satellites of other operators as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturers' errors, problems with the power systems or control systems of the
satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. 

Although
we work closely with the satellite manufacturers to determine and eliminate the cause of anomalies in new satellites and provide for redundancies of many critical components in the
satellites, we may experience anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components. 

Any
single anomaly or series of anomalies could materially and adversely affect our operations and revenues and our relationship with current customers, as well as our ability to attract new customers
for our satellite services. In particular, future anomalies may result in the loss of individual transponders on a satellite, a group of transponders on that satellite or the entire satellite,
depending on the nature
of the anomaly. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby reducing the revenue that could be generated by that satellite, or create additional expenses due to the need
to provide replacement or back-up satellites. 

Meteoroid
events pose a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. The probability that meteoroids will damage those satellites increases significantly when the Earth passes through the
particulate stream left behind by comets. Occasionally, increased solar activity also poses a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. 

Some
decommissioned spacecraft are in uncontrolled orbits which pass through the geostationary belt at various points and present hazards to operational spacecraft, including our satellites. We may be
required to perform maneuvers to avoid collisions and these maneuvers may prove unsuccessful or could reduce the useful life of the satellite through the expenditure of fuel to perform these
maneuvers. The loss, damage or destruction of any of our satellites as a result of an electrostatic storm, collision with space debris, malfunction or other event could have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

 Our satellites have minimum design lives ranging from 12 to 15 years, but could fail or suffer reduced capacity before then. 

Our ability to earn revenue depends on the usefulness of our satellites, each of which has a limited useful life. A number of factors affect the
useful lives of the satellites, including, among other things, the quality of their construction, the durability of their component parts, the ability to continue to maintain proper orbit and control
over the satellite's functions, the efficiency of the launch vehicle used, and the remaining on-board fuel following orbit insertion. Generally, the minimum design life of 

27

 

Table of Contents

each
of our satellites ranges from 12 to 15 years. We can provide no assurance, however, as to the actual useful lives of the satellites. 

In
the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may relocate another satellite and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite, which could have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such a relocation would require FCC approval and, among other things, a showing to the FCC that the replacement satellite would not
cause additional interference compared to the failed or lost satellite. We cannot be certain that we could obtain such FCC approval. 

 Our satellites under construction are subject to risks related to construction and launch that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. 

Satellite construction and launch are subject to significant risks, including delays, launch failure and incorrect orbital placement. Certain launch
vehicles that may be used by us have either unproven track records or have experienced launch failures in the past. The risks of launch delay and failure are usually greater when the launch vehicle
does not have a track record of previous successful flights. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites,
which can take more than three years, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Construction and launch delays could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If we decide not
to procure launch insurance, or we decide to procure launch insurance but we are unable to do so or are unable to obtain launch insurance at rates we deem commercially reasonable, and a significant
launch failure were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues and fund future satellite procurement and launch opportunities. In addition, the occurrence of
launch failures whether on our satellites or those of others may significantly reduce the availability of launch insurance on our satellites or make launch insurance premiums uneconomical. 

 Our "Satellite Services" business is subject to risks of adverse government regulation. 

Our "Satellite Services" business is subject to varying degrees of regulation in the United States by the FCC, and other entities, and in foreign
countries by similar entities. These regulations are subject to the political process and have been in constant flux over the past decade. Moreover, a substantial number of foreign countries in which
we have, or may in the future make, an investment, regulate, in varying degrees, the ownership of satellites and the distribution and ownership of programming services and foreign investment in
programming companies. Further material changes in law and regulatory requirements must be anticipated, and there can be no assurance that our business and the business of our affiliates will not be
adversely affected by future legislation, new regulation or deregulation. 

 Our business depends on FCC licenses that can expire or be revoked or modified and applications for FCC licenses that may not be granted. 

If the FCC were to cancel, revoke, suspend, or fail to renew any of our licenses or authorizations, or fail to grant our applications for FCC
licenses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, loss of a frequency authorization would reduce the amount of spectrum
available to us, potentially reducing the amount of services available to our customers. The materiality of such a loss of authorizations would vary based upon, among other things, the location of the
frequency used or the availability of replacement spectrum. In addition, Congress often considers legislation that could affect us and enacts
legislation that does affect us, and FCC proceedings to implement the Communications Act and enforce its regulations are ongoing. We cannot predict the outcomes of these legislative or regulatory
proceedings or their effect on our business. 

28

 

Table of Contents
 

 We may not be aware of certain foreign government regulations. 

Because regulatory schemes vary by country, we may be subject to regulations in foreign countries of which we are not presently aware. If that were
to be the case, we could be subject to sanctions by a foreign government that could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate in that country. We cannot assure you that any current
regulatory approvals held by us are, or will remain, sufficient in the view of foreign regulatory authorities, or that any additional necessary approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all,
in all jurisdictions in which we wish to operate new satellites, or that applicable restrictions in those jurisdictions will not be unduly burdensome. The failure to obtain the authorizations
necessary to operate satellites internationally could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and our overall competitive position. 

We,
our customers and companies with whom we do business may be required to have authority from each country in which we or they provide services or provide our customers use of our satellites.
Because regulations in each country are different, we may not be aware if some of our customers and/or companies with which we do business do not hold the requisite licenses and approvals. 

 Our dependence on outside contractors could result in delays related to the design, manufacture and launch of our new satellites, which could in turn adversely affect our
operating results. 

There are a limited number of manufacturers that are able to design and build satellites according to the technical specifications and standards of
quality we require, including Astrium Satellites, Boeing Satellite Systems, Lockheed Martin, Space Systems/Loral and Thales Alenia Space. There are also a limited number of launch service providers
able to launch such satellites, including International Launch Services, Arianespace, United Launch Alliance and Sea Launch Company, which has launched several of our satellites and is currently in
bankruptcy. The loss of any of our manufacturers or launch service providers could result in the delay of the design, construction or launch of our satellites. Even if alternate suppliers for such
services are available, we may have difficulty identifying them in a timely manner, we may incur significant additional expense in changing suppliers, and this could result in difficulties or delays
in the design, construction or launch of our satellites. Any delays in the design, construction or launch of our satellites could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and results of operations. 

 We currently have no commercial insurance coverage on the satellites we own and could face significant impairment charges if one of our satellites fails. 

Generally, we do not carry launch or in-orbit insurance on the satellites we use. We currently do not carry in-orbit
insurance on any of our satellites and do not use commercial insurance to mitigate the potential financial impact of launch or in-orbit failures because we believe that the cost of
insurance premiums is uneconomical relative to the risk of such failures. If one or more of our in-orbit satellites fail, we could be required to record significant impairment charges. 

 Risks Relating to the Spin-Off 

 We have potential conflicts of interest with DISH Network due to our common ownership and management. 

Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between DISH Network and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing
relationships. Areas in which
conflicts of interest between DISH Network and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•
Cross officerships, directorships and stock
ownership.
 We continue to have significant overlap in directors and executive officers with DISH Network, which may lead to conflicting
interests. Certain of our executive officers and directors, including Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, also serve as executive officers of DISH Network. Three of these individuals provide us services 

29

 

Table of Contents

pursuant
to a management services agreement we entered into with DISH Network. Our Board of Directors includes persons who are members of the Board of Directors of DISH Network, including
Mr. Ergen, who serves as the Chairman of DISH Network and us. The executive officers and the members of our Board of Directors who overlap with DISH Network have fiduciary duties to DISH
Network's shareholders. Pursuant to the management services agreement, three of these officers are paid by DISH Network even if their duties include work for EchoStar. Therefore, these individuals may
have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each company. For example, there is potential for a conflict of interest when we or DISH Network look at
acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for both companies. In addition, many of our directors and officers own DISH Network stock and options to purchase DISH Network
stock, certain of which they acquired or were granted prior to the Spin-off, including Mr. Ergen, who beneficially owns approximately 51.2% of the total equity and controls
approximately 83.5% of the voting power of DISH Network. Mr. Ergen's beneficial ownership of DISH Network excludes 22,023,267 shares of DISH Network Class A Common Stock issuable upon
conversion of shares of DISH Network Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own
approximately 10.0% of the total equity securities and possess approximately 8.5% of the total voting power of DISH Network. These ownership interests could create actual, apparent or potential
conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our company and DISH Network. 

•
Intercompany agreements related to the
Spin-off.
 We entered into agreements with DISH Network pursuant to which it provides us certain management, administrative,
accounting, tax, legal and other services, for which we pay DISH Network an amount equal to DISH Network's cost plus a fixed margin. In addition, we entered into a number of intercompany agreements
covering matters such as tax sharing and our responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by DISH Network for certain of our businesses. We also entered into certain commercial
agreements with DISH Network pursuant to which we are, among other things, obligated to sell at specified prices, digital set-top boxes and related equipment to DISH Network. The terms of
certain of these agreements were established while we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of DISH Network and were not the result of arm's length negotiations. The allocation of assets, liabilities,
rights, indemnifications and other obligations between DISH Network and us under the separation and ancillary agreements we entered into with DISH Network do not necessarily reflect what two
unaffiliated parties might have agreed to. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, their terms may have been more favorable, or less favorable, to us. In addition,
conflicts could arise in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of these existing agreements. 
 

•
Future intercompany
transactions.
 In the future, DISH Network or its affiliates may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates.
Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between DISH Network and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the directors on our board who are
not also directors on the DISH Network board or a committee of such directors, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries
or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm's length negotiations. 
 

•
Business
opportunities.
 DISH Network retains its interests in various U.S. and international companies that have subsidiaries or controlled
affiliates that own or operate domestic or foreign services that may compete with services offered by our businesses. We may also compete with DISH Network when we participate in auctions for spectrum
or orbital slots for our satellites. 

30

 

Table of Contents

We
may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and, even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. 

We
do not have any agreements with DISH Network that restrict us from selling our products to competitors of DISH Network, nor do we have any agreement that prevents DISH Network from
purchasing products from our competitors. We also do not have any agreements with DISH Network that would prevent us from competing with each other. 

In
addition, the corporate opportunity policy set forth in our articles of incorporation addresses potential conflicts of interest for officers and directors of DISH Network who are also officers or
directors of us. This policy could restrict our ability to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities. 

 Risks Relating to our Common Stock and the Securities Market 

 We cannot assure you that there will not be deficiencies leading to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. 

We periodically evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009. If in the future we are unable to report that our
internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors do not agree with our assessment of the effectiveness of, or are unable to express an opinion on, our internal control over
financial reporting), investors, customers and business partners could lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business,
investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer. 

 It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders, because of our capital structure. 

Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a
shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: 

•
a capital structure with multiple classes of common stock: a Class A that entitles the holders to one vote per
share, a Class B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Class C that entitles the holders to one vote per share, except upon a change in control of our company in which case
the holders of Class C are entitled to ten votes per share and a non-voting Class D; 
 

•
a provision that authorizes the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock, which could be issued by our Board of Directors
to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; 
 

•
a provision limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; and 
 

•
a provision establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors
or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings. 

In
addition, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation we have a significant amount of authorized and unissued stock that would allow our Board of Directors to issue shares to persons friendly to
current management, thereby protecting the continuity of management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. 

31

 

Table of Contents

 We are controlled by one principal shareholder who is our Chairman. 

Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, beneficially owns approximately 46.3% of our total equity securities and possesses approximately 61.2% of the total
voting power. Mr. Ergen's beneficial ownership of us excludes 16,276,214 shares of our Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of our Class B Common Stock
currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 32.1% of our total equity securities and possess
approximately 31.7% of our total voting power. Thus, Mr. Ergen has the ability to elect a majority of our directors and to control all other matters requiring the approval of our shareholders.
As a result of Mr. Ergen's voting power, we are a "controlled company" as defined in the
Nasdaq listing rules and, therefore, are not subject to Nasdaq requirements that would otherwise require us to have (i) a majority of independent directors; (ii) a nominating committee
composed solely of independent directors; (iii) compensation of our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of
independent directors; and (iv) director nominees selected, or recommended for the Board's selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely
of independent directors. Mr. Ergen also beneficially owns approximately 51.2% of the total equity and 83.5% of the total voting power of DISH Network and continues to be the Chairman,
President and Chief Executive Officer of DISH Network, which directly and through its subsidiaries continues to be our largest customer, accounting for a substantial majority of our revenues.
Mr. Ergen's beneficial ownership of DISH Network excludes 22,023,267 shares of DISH Network Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of DISH Network Class B Common
Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 10.0% of the total equity securities and possess
approximately 8.5% of the total voting power of DISH Network. 

 We may face other risks described from time to time in periodic and current reports we file with the SEC.