— Risks Associated with Our International Operations — We will stop generating any revenues from our Macao gaming operations if we cannot secure an extension of our subconcession in 2022 or if the Macao government exercises its redemption right.” Under our subconcession, we are obligated to pay to the Macao government an annual premium with a fixed portion and a variable portion based on the number and type of gaming tables employed and gaming machines operated by us. The fixed portion of the premium is equal to 30.0 million patacas (approximately $3.7 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2011). The variable portion is equal to 300,000 patacas per gaming table reserved exclusively for certain kinds of games or players, 150,000 patacas per gaming table not so reserved and 1,000 patacas per electrical or mechanical gaming machine, including slot machines (approximately $37,495, $18,748 and $125, respectively, at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2011), subject to a minimum of 45.0 million patacas (approximately $5.6 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2011). We also have to pay a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenues and applicable withholding taxes. We must also contribute 4% of our gross gaming revenue to utilities designated by the Macao government, a portion of which must be used for promotion of tourism in Macao. This percentage may be subject to change in the future. Currently, the gaming tax in Macao is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue; however, unlike Nevada, gross gaming revenue does not include deductions for credit losses. As a result, if we extend credit to our customers in Macao and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we have to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers even though we were unable to collect on the related receivables. If the laws are not changed, our business in Macao may not be able to realize the full benefits of extending credit to our customers. Although there are proposals to revise the gaming tax laws in Macao, there can be no assurance that the laws will be changed. We have received an exemption from Macao’s corporate income tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games of chance for the five-year period ending December 31, 2013. Additionally, we entered into an agreement with the Macao government effective through 2013 that provides for an annual payment that is a substitution for a 12% tax otherwise due from VML shareholders on dividend distributions. See “Item 1A — Risk Factors — Risks Associated with Our International Operations — We are currently not required to pay corporate income taxes on our casino gaming operations in Macao. Additionally, we currently have an agreement with the Macao government that provides for a fixed annual payment that is a substitution for a 12% tax otherwise due on dividends distributed from our Macao gaming operations. These tax arrangements expire at the end of 2013.” 12 Table of Contents Development Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board On August 23, 2006, our wholly owned subsidiary, Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd. (“MBS”), entered into a development agreement, as amended by a supplementary agreement on December 11, 2009 (the “Development Agreement”) with the STB to design, develop, construct and operate the Marina Bay Sands. The Development Agreement includes a concession for MBS to own and operate a casino within the integrated resort. In addition to the casino, the integrated resort includes, among other amenities, a hotel, a retail complex, a convention center and meeting room complex, theaters, restaurants and an art/science museum. MBS is one of two companies that have been awarded a concession to operate a casino in Singapore. Under the Request for Proposal, MBS has been provided a ten-year exclusive period, which began March 1, 2007, during which only two licensees will be granted the right to operate a casino in Singapore. In connection with entering into the Development Agreement, MBS entered into a 60-year lease with the STB for the parcels underlying the project site and entered into an agreement with the Land Transport Authority of Singapore for the provision of necessary infrastructure for rapid transit systems and road works within and/or outside the project site. During the same ten-year period discussed above, the Company, which is currently the 100% indirect shareholder of MBS, must continue to be the single largest entity with direct or indirect controlling interest of at least 20% in MBS, unless otherwise approved by the CRA. The term of the casino concession provided under the Development Agreement is for 30 years commencing from the date the Development Agreement was entered into, or August 23, 2006. In order to renew the casino concession, MBS must give notice to the STB and other relevant authorities in Singapore at least five years before its expiration in August 2036. The Singapore government may terminate the casino concession prior to its expiration in order to serve the best interests of the public, in which event fair compensation will be paid to MBS. Under the Development Agreement, MBS was required to be licensed by the relevant gaming authorities in Singapore before it could commence operating the casino under the casino concession. In connection with issuing the gaming license, the relevant gaming authorities looked into various factors relating to MBS, including, but not limited to: (i) its reputation, character, honesty and integrity, (ii) whether or not it is sound and stable from a financial point of view, (iii) confirming that it has a satisfactory corporate ownership structure, (iv) the adequacy of its financial resources in order to ensure the financial viability of the casino operations, (v) whether it has engaged and employed persons who have sufficient experience managing and operating a casino and that are suitable to act in such capacities, (vi) its ability to sufficiently maintain a successful casino operation, (vii) confirming that there are no business associations with any person, body or association who is not of good repute, has a disregard for character, honesty and integrity, or has undesirable or unsatisfactory financial resources, (viii) determining whether the persons associated or connected with the ownership, administration or management of the casino operations or business are suitable persons to act in such capacity and (ix) the operation plan for the casino. On April 26, 2010, MBS was issued a gaming license for a three-year period, which was acquired for SGD 37.5 million (approximately $28.8 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2011). This license is being amortized over its three-year term and is renewable upon submitting a renewal application, paying the applicable license fee and meeting the renewal requirements as determined by the CRA. The Development Agreement contains, among other things, restrictions limiting the use of the leased land to the development and operation of the project, requirements that MBS obtain prior approval from the STB in order to subdivide the hotel and retail components of the project, and prohibitions on any such subdivision during a ten-year exclusive period, which began March 1, 2007. The Development Agreement also contains provisions relating to the construction of the project and associated deadlines for substantial completion and opening; the location of the casino within the project site and casino licensing issues; insurance requirements; and limitations on MBS’ ability to assign the lease or sub-lease any portion of the land during the ten-year exclusivity period that commenced March 1, 2007. In addition, the Development Agreement contains events of default, including, among other things, the failure of MBS to perform its obligations under the Development Agreement and events of bankruptcy or dissolution. The Development Agreement requires MBS to invest at least SGD 3.85 billion (approximately $2.96 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2011) in the integrated resort, which investment is to be allocated in specified amounts among the casino, hotel, food and beverage outlets, retail areas, meeting, convention and exhibition facilities, key attractions, entertainment venues and public areas. This minimum investment requirement, which has been fulfilled, must be satisfied in full upon the earlier of eight years from the date of the Development Agreement or three years from the issuance of the casino license, which was issued in April 2010. MBS was required to complete the construction of the Marina Bay Sands by August 22, 2014, in order to avoid an event of default under the Development Agreement that could result in a forfeiture of the lease for the land parcels underlying the integrated resort. Under the terms of the Development Agreement, MBS agreed to design, develop and construct the integrated resort in accordance with the plans set forth in its response to the Request for Proposal, which was accepted by the STB. 13 Table of Contents Pursuant to the Development Agreement, MBS was permitted to open Marina Bay Sands in stages and in accordance with an agreed upon schedule. There were no financial consequences to MBS if it failed to meet the agreed upon schedule, provided that the entire integrated resort opened by December 31, 2011. MBS met the schedule as confirmed by an audit conducted on behalf of the STB. Had the STB determined that MBS had not satisfied the requirements of the Development Agreement by December 31, 2011, the STB would have been entitled to draw on the SGD 192.6 million (approximately $148.2 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2011) security deposit provided by MBS in the form of a banker’s guarantee at the time MBS entered into the Development Agreement. As such requirements have been satisfied, the banker’s guarantee has been released in January 2012. Employees whose job duties relate to the operations of the casino are required to be licensed by the relevant authorities in Singapore. MBS also must comply with comprehensive internal control standards or regulations concerning advertising; branch office operations; the location, floor plans and layout of the casino; casino operations including casino related financial transactions and patron disputes, issuance of credit and collection of debt, relationships with and permitted payments to junket operators; security and surveillance; casino access by Singaporeans and non-Singaporeans; compliance functions and the prevention of money laundering; periodic standard and other reports to the CRA; and those relating to social controls including the exclusion of certain persons from the casino. There is a goods and services tax of 7% imposed on gross gaming revenue and a casino tax of 15% imposed on the gross gaming revenue from the casino after reduction for the amount of goods and services tax, except in the case of gaming by premium players, in which case a casino tax of 5% is imposed on the gross gaming revenue generated from such players after reduction for the amount of the goods and services tax. The tax rates will not be changed for a period of 15 years from March 1, 2007. The casino tax is deductible against the Singapore corporate taxable income of MBS. The provision for bad debts arising from the extension of credit granted to gaming patrons is not deductible against gross gaming revenue when calculating the casino tax, but is deductible for the purposes of calculating corporate income tax and the goods and services tax (subject to the prevailing law). MBS is permitted to extend casino credit to persons who are not Singapore citizens or permanent residents, but is not permitted to extend casino credit to Singapore citizens or permanent residents except to premium players. The key constraint imposed on the casino under the Development Agreement is the total size of the gaming area, which must not be more than 15,000 square meters (approximately 161,000 square feet). The following will not be counted towards the gaming area: back of house facilities, reception, restrooms, food and beverage areas, retail shops, stairs, escalators and lift lobbies leading to the gaming area, aesthetic and decorative displays, performance areas and major aisles. The casino located within Marina Bay Sands may not have more than 2,500 gaming machines, but there is no limit on the number of tables for casino games permitted in the casino. State of Nevada The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the State of Nevada are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the “Nevada Act”) and various local regulations. Our gaming operations are also subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission (the “Nevada Commission”), the Nevada Gaming Control Board (the “Nevada Board”) and the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board (the “CCLGLB” and together with the Nevada Commission and the Nevada Board, the “Nevada Gaming Authorities”). The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada Gaming Authorities are based upon declarations of public policy that are concerned with, among other things: 14 Table of Contents Any change in such laws, regulations and procedures could have an adverse effect on our Las Vegas operations. Las Vegas Sands, LLC (“LVSLLC”) is licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities to operate both The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo as a single resort hotel as set forth in the Nevada Act. The gaming license requires the periodic payment of fees and taxes and is not transferable. LVSLLC is also registered as an intermediary company of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC (“VCR”). VCR is licensed as a manufacturer and distributor of gaming devices. LVSLLC and VCR are collectively referred to as the “licensed subsidiaries.” LVSC is registered with the Nevada Commission as a publicly traded corporation (the “registered corporation”). As such, we must periodically submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and furnish any other information that the Nevada Gaming Authorities may require. No person may become a stockholder of, or receive any percentage of the profits from, the licensed subsidiaries without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Additionally, the CCLGLB has taken the position that it has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming licensee. We, and the licensed subsidiaries, possess all state and local government registrations, approvals, permits and licenses required in order for us to engage in gaming activities at The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with us or the licensed subsidiaries to determine whether such individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. Officers, directors and certain key employees of the licensed subsidiaries must file applications with the Nevada Gaming Authorities and may be required to be licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Our officers, directors and key employees who are actively and directly involved in the gaming activities of the licensed subsidiaries may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for licensing or a finding of suitability for any cause they deem reasonable. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing; both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. The applicant for licensing or a finding of suitability, or the gaming licensee by whom the applicant is employed or for whom the applicant serves, must pay all the costs of the investigation. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada Gaming Authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the Nevada Gaming Authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position. If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or to have an inappropriate relationship with us or the licensed subsidiaries, we would have to sever all relationships with such person. In addition, the Nevada Commission may require us or the licensed subsidiaries to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in Nevada. We, and the licensed subsidiaries, are required to submit periodic detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Commission. Substantially all of our and our licensed subsidiaries’ material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to or approved by the Nevada Commission. If it were determined that we or a licensed subsidiary violated the Nevada Act, the registration and gaming licenses we then hold could be limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked, subject to compliance with certain statutory and regulatory procedures. In addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the Nevada Act at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Further, a supervisor could be appointed by the Nevada Commission to operate the casinos, and, under certain circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor’s appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the casinos) could be forfeited to the State of Nevada. Limitation, conditioning or suspension of any gaming registration or license or the appointment of a supervisor could (and revocation of any gaming license would) materially adversely affect our gaming operations. Any beneficial holder of our voting securities, regardless of the number of shares owned, may be required to file an application, be investigated, and have its suitability as a beneficial holder of our voting securities determined if the Nevada Commission has reason to believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. The applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting any such investigation. The Nevada Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of our voting securities to report the acquisition to the Nevada Commission. The Nevada Act requires that beneficial owners of more than 10% of our voting securities apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails the written notice requiring such filing. Under certain circumstances, an “institutional investor” as defined in the Nevada Act, which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of our voting securities (subject to certain additional holdings as a result of certain debt restructurings), may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability if such institutional investor holds the voting securities only for investment purposes. Additionally, an institutional investor that has been granted such a waiver may acquire more than 25% but not more than 29% of our voting securities if such additional ownership results from a stock re-purchase program and such institutional investor does not purchase or otherwise acquire any additional voting securities that would result in an increase in its ownership percentage. 15 Table of Contents An institutional investor will be deemed to hold voting securities only for investment purposes if it acquires and holds the voting securities in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investment and not for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority of the members of our Board of Directors, any change in our corporate charter, by-laws, management, policies or our operations or any of our gaming affiliates, or any other action which the Nevada Commission finds to be inconsistent with holding our voting securities only for investment purposes. Activities that are deemed consistent with holding voting securities only for investment purposes include: If the beneficial holder of voting securities who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of beneficial owners. The applicant is required to pay all costs of investigation. Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within thirty days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Commission or the Chairman of the Nevada Board may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common stock of a registered corporation beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We are subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us or a licensed subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed subsidiaries: Our charter documents include provisions intended to help us comply with these requirements. The Nevada Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt security of a registered corporation to file an application, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt security of such registered corporation. If the Nevada Commission determines that a person is unsuitable to own such security, then pursuant to the Nevada Act, the registered corporation can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals, if without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission, it: We are required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada that may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and we are also required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. We are also required to render maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner. We cannot make a public offering of any securities without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission if the securities or the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for such purposes. On November 18, 2010, the Nevada Commission granted us prior approval to make public offerings for a period of two years, subject to certain conditions (the “shelf approval”). The shelf approval includes prior approval by the Nevada Commission permitting us to place restrictions on the transfer of the membership interests and to enter into agreements not to encumber the membership interests of LVSLLC. However, the shelf approval may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the Chairman of the Nevada Board. The shelf approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation, or approval by the Nevada Commission or the Nevada Board as to the investment merits of any securities offered under the shelf approval. Any representation to the contrary is unlawful. 16 Table of Contents Changes in our control through a merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement, or any act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control, shall not occur without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission. Entities seeking to acquire control of a registered corporation must satisfy the Nevada Board and the Nevada Commission concerning a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control of such registered corporation. The Nevada Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process of the transaction. The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada gaming licensees, and registered corporations that are affiliated with those operations, may be injurious to stable and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Commission has established a regulatory scheme to ameliorate the potentially adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada’s gaming industry and to further Nevada’s policy to: Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the Nevada Commission before we can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above the current market price thereof and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated. The Nevada Act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by the Board of Directors in response to a tender offer made directly to our stockholders for the purposes of acquiring control of the registered corporation. License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending upon the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the State of Nevada and to Clark County, Nevada. Depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon: The tax on gross revenues received is generally 6.75%. In addition, an excise tax is paid by us on charges for admission to any facility where certain forms of live entertainment are provided. VCR is also required to pay certain fees and taxes to the State of Nevada as a licensed manufacturer and distributor. Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to be registered, or under common control with such persons (collectively, “licensees”), and who proposes to become involved in a gaming operation outside of Nevada, is required to deposit with the Nevada Board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of any investigation by the Nevada Board into their participation in such foreign gaming operation. The revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Thereafter, licensees are also required to comply with certain reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada Act. Licensees are also subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if they knowingly violate any laws of any foreign jurisdiction pertaining to such foreign gaming operation, fail to conduct such foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations, engage in activities that are harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees, or employ a person in such foreign operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of personal unsuitability or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling. 17 Table of Contents The sale of alcoholic beverages by the licensed subsidiaries on the casino premises and Sands Expo Center is subject to licensing, control and regulation by the applicable local authorities. Our licensed subsidiaries have obtained the necessary liquor licenses to sell alcoholic beverages. All licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The agencies involved have full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any such licenses, and any such disciplinary action could (and revocation of such licenses would) have a material adverse effect upon our operations. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania Sands Bethworks Gaming is subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board (“PaGCB”) and the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue, the on-site direction of the Pennsylvania State Police and the requirements of other agencies. On December 20, 2006, we were awarded one of two category 2 “at large” gaming licenses available in Pennsylvania, and a location in the Pocono Mountains was awarded the other category 2 “at large” license. On the same day, two category 2 licenses were awarded to applicants for locations in Philadelphia, one category 2 license was awarded to an applicant in Pittsburgh, and six race tracks were awarded permanent category 1 licenses. One of the Philadelphia category 2 licenses was revoked by the PaGCB in 2010. The revocation was upheld in November 2011 by an intermediate appellate court in Pennsylvania, but a request to review the revocation is pending before the Pennsylvania Supreme Court. The principal difference between category 1 and category 2 licenses is that the former is available only to certain race tracks. A category 1 or category 2 licensee is authorized to open with up to 3,000 slot machines and to increase to up to 5,000 slot machines upon approval of the PaGCB, which may not take effect earlier than six months after opening. The PaGCB also is permitted to award three category 3 licenses. A category 3 licensee is authorized to operate up to 600 slot machines and 50 table games or up to 500 slot machines without table games. To date, two category 3 licenses have been awarded (but the award of the second category 3 license has been appealed) and one more may be issued, but not before July 2017. In July 2007, we paid a $50.0 million licensing fee to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and, in August 2007, were issued our gaming license by the PaGCB. Just prior to the opening of the casino at Sands Bethlehem, we were required to make a deposit of $5.0 million, which was reduced to $1.5 million in January 2010 when the law was amended, to cover weekly withdrawals of our share of the cost of regulation and the amount withdrawn must be replenished weekly. In February 2010, we submitted a petition to the PaGCB to obtain a table games operation certificate to operate table games at Sands Bethlehem, based on a revision to the law in 2010 that authorized table games. The petition was approved in April 2010, we paid a $16.5 million table game licensing fee in May 2010 and were issued a table games certificate in June 2010. Table games operations commenced on July 18, 2010. We must notify the PaGCB if we become aware of any proposed or contemplated change of control including more than 5% of the ownership interests of Sands Bethworks Gaming or of more than 5% of the ownership interests of any entity that owns, directly or indirectly, at least 20% of Sands Bethworks Gaming, including LVSC. The acquisition by a person or a group of persons acting in concert of more than 20% of the ownership interests of Sands Bethworks Gaming or of any entity that owns, directly or indirectly, at least 20% of Sands Bethworks Gaming with the exception of the ownership interest of a person at the time of the original licensure when the license fee was paid, would be defined as a change of control under applicable Pennsylvania gaming law and regulations. Upon a change of control, the acquirer of the ownership interests would be required to qualify for licensure and to pay a new license fee of $50.0 million. The PaGCB retains the discretion to eliminate the need for qualification and may reduce the license fee upon a change of control. The PaGCB may provide up to 120 days for any person who is required to apply for a license and who is found not qualified to completely divest the person’s ownership interest. Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of our voting securities will be required to apply to the PaGCB for licensure, obtain licensure and remain licensed. Licensure requires, among other things, that the applicant establish by clear and convincing evidence the applicant’s good character, honesty and integrity. Additionally, any trust that holds 5% or more of our voting securities is required to be licensed by the PaGCB and each individual who is a grantor, trustee or beneficiary of the trust is also required to be licensed by the PaGCB. Under certain circumstances and under the regulations of the PaGCB, an “institutional investor” as defined under the regulations of the PaGCB, which acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more, but less than 10%, of our voting securities, may not be required to be licensed by the PaGCB provided the institutional investor files an Institutional Notice of Ownership Form with the PaGCB Bureau of Licensing and has filed, and remains eligible to file, a statement of beneficial ownership on Schedule 13G with the SEC as a result of this ownership interest. In addition, any beneficial owner of our voting securities, regardless of the number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the discretion of the PaGCB to file an application for licensure. 18 Table of Contents In the event a security holder is required to be found qualified and is not found qualified, the security holder may be required by the PaGCB to divest of the interest at a price not exceeding the cost of the interest. In February 2009, the PaGCB approved our petition seeking its consent of the suspension of the hotel, retail and multipurpose event center components of Sands Bethlehem. This approval is subject to monthly reviews by the PaGCB’s financial suitability task force and our meetings with this task force to evaluate our potential to finance the completion of the suspended components. Once the task force determines that we have the potential to finance the suspended components, a public hearing will be set to consider establishing a completion date for the overall project. No determination has been made to date that we have the potential to finance all of the suspended components. In April 2010, we recommenced construction of the 300-room hotel tower, which opened in May 2011. We have also recommenced construction of the retail mall (with a progressive opening that began in November 2011) and multipurpose event center (expected to open in the second quarter of 2012). Employees We directly employ approximately 40,000 employees worldwide and hire temporary employees on an as-needed basis. Our employees in Macao, Singapore, Las Vegas and Bethlehem are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe that we have good relations with our employees. Certain unions have engaged in confrontational and obstructive tactics at some of our properties, including contacting potential customers, tenants and investors, objecting to various administrative approvals and picketing, and may continue these tactics in the future. Although we believe we will be able to operate despite such tactics, no assurance can be given that we will be able to do so or that the failure to do so would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Although no assurances can be given, if employees decide to be represented by labor unions, management does not believe that such representation would have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Certain culinary personnel are hired from time to time for trade shows and conventions at Sands Expo Center and are covered under a collective bargaining agreement between Local 226 and Sands Expo Center. This collective bargaining agreement expired in December 2000, but automatically renews on an annual basis. As a result, Sands Expo Center is operating under the terms of the expired bargaining agreement with respect to these employees. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property (“IP”) portfolio currently consists of a combination of copyrights, contractual rights, domain names and domain name system configurations, patents, trade secrets, trademarks, service marks and trade names. As they have the effect of developing brand identification and we believe that the name recognition, reputation and image that we have developed attract customers to facilities, we seek to protect the marks of material importance to our business in the countries where we operate or significantly advertise, as well as in countries where we might operate in the future. The marks we consider material include PAIZA ® , PALAZZO ® , SANDS ® , THE VENETIAN ® , the sunburst design mark, the V crest and winged lion design mark, and variations of these marks and logos. Depending on the jurisdiction, our marks remain valid provided we continue to use them and/or we properly maintain their registrations. Agreements Relating to the Malls in Las Vegas The Grand Canal Shoppes In April 2004, we entered into an agreement with GGP to sell The Grand Canal Shoppes and lease to GGP certain restaurant and other retail space at the casino level of The Venetian Las Vegas for approximately $766.0 million. In May 2004, we completed the sale of The Grand Canal Shoppes and leased to GGP 19 retail and restaurant spaces on the casino level of The Venetian Las Vegas for 89 years with annual rent of one dollar, and GGP assumed our interest as landlord under the various leases associated with these 19 spaces. In addition, we agreed with GGP to: 19 Table of Contents The lease payments relating to the Blue Man Group theater, the canal space within The Grand Canal Shoppes and the office space from GGP are subject to automatic increases of 5% in the sixth lease year and each subsequent fifth lease year. The Shoppes at The Palazzo The Shoppes at The Palazzo opened on January 18, 2008, with some tenants not yet open and with construction of certain portions of the mall not yet completed. We contracted to sell The Shoppes at The Palazzo to GGP pursuant to a purchase and sale agreement dated as of April 12, 2004, as amended (the “Amended Agreement”). Under the Amended Agreement, we also leased to GGP certain restaurant and retail space on the casino level of The Palazzo for 89 years with annual rent of one dollar and GGP assumed our interest as landlord under the various space leases associated with these spaces. The total purchase price to be paid by GGP for The Shoppes at The Palazzo was to be determined by taking The Shoppes at The Palazzo’s net operating income (“NOI”), as defined in the Amended Agreement, for months 19 through 30 of its operations (assuming that the fixed rent and other fixed periodic payments due from all tenants in month 30 was actually due in each of months 19 through 30, provided that this 12-month period can be delayed if certain conditions are satisfied) divided by a capitalization rate. The capitalization rate was 0.06 for every dollar of NOI up to $38.0 million and 0.08 for every dollar of NOI above $38.0 million. On the closing date of the sale, February 29, 2008, GGP made its initial purchase price payment of $290.8 million based on projected NOI for the first 12 months of operations (only taking into account tenants open for business or paying rent as of February 29, 2008). An additional $4.6 million was received from GGP in June 2008, representing the adjustment payment at the fourth month after closing. We agreed with GGP to suspend the scheduled purchase price adjustments, subsequent to the June 2008 payment, including the final adjustment payment as both parties continued to work on various matters related to the calculation of NOI. On June 24, 2011, we reached a settlement with GGP regarding the final purchase price. Under the terms of the settlement, we retained the $295.4 million of proceeds previously received and participate in certain future revenues earned by GGP. Cooperation Agreement Our business plan calls for each of The Venetian Las Vegas, The Palazzo, Sands Expo Center, The Grand Canal Shoppes, The Shoppes at The Palazzo and the high-rise residential condominium tower that was being constructed on the Las Vegas strip between The Palazzo and The Venetian Las Vegas (the “Las Vegas Condo Tower”), though separately owned, to be integrally related components of one facility (the “LV Integrated Resort”). In establishing the terms for the integrated operation of these components, the cooperation agreement sets forth agreements regarding, among other things, encroachments, easements, operating standards, maintenance requirements, insurance requirements, casualty and condemnation, joint marketing, and the sharing of some facilities and related costs. Subject to applicable law, the cooperation agreement binds all current and future owners of all portions of the LV Integrated Resort and has priority over the liens securing LVSLLC’s senior secured credit facility and in some or all respects any liens that may secure any indebtedness of the owners of any portion of the LV Integrated Resort. Accordingly, subject to applicable law, the obligations in the cooperation agreement will “run with the land” if any of the components change hands. Operating Covenants. The cooperation agreement regulates certain aspects of the operation of the LV Integrated Resort. For example, under the cooperation agreement, we are obligated to operate The Venetian Las Vegas continuously and to use it exclusively in accordance with standards of first-class Las Vegas Boulevard-style hotels and casinos. We are also obligated to operate and use the Sands Expo Center exclusively in accordance with standards of first-class convention, trade show and exposition centers. The owners of The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo are obligated to operate their properties exclusively in accordance with standards of first-class restaurant and retail complexes. For so long as The Venetian Las Vegas is operated in accordance with a “Venetian” theme, the owner of The Grand Canal Shoppes must operate The Grand Canal Shoppes in accordance with the overall Venetian theme. 20 Table of Contents Maintenance and Repair. We must maintain The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo as well as some common areas and common facilities that are to be shared with The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo. The cost of maintenance of all shared common areas and common facilities is to be shared between us and the owners of The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo. We must also maintain, repair and restore Sands Expo Center and certain common areas and common facilities located in Sands Expo Center. The owners of The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo must maintain, repair and restore The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo and certain common areas and common facilities located within. Insurance. We and the owners of The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo must maintain minimum types and levels of insurance, including property damage, general liability and business interruption insurance. The cooperation agreement establishes an insurance trustee to assist in the implementation of the insurance requirements. Parking. The cooperation agreement also addresses issues relating to the use of the LV Integrated Resort’s parking facilities and easements for access. The Venetian Las Vegas, The Palazzo, Sands Expo Center, The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo may use the parking spaces in the LV Integrated Resort’s parking facilities on a “first come, first served” basis. The LV Integrated Resort’s parking facilities are owned, maintained and operated by us, with the operating costs proportionately allocated among and/or billed to the owners of the components of the LV Integrated Resort. Each party to the cooperation agreement has granted to the others non-exclusive easements and rights to use the roadways and walkways on each other’s properties for vehicular and pedestrian access to the parking garages. Utility Easement. All property owners have also granted each other all appropriate and necessary easement rights to utility lines servicing the LV Integrated Resort. Consents, Approvals and Disputes. If any current or future party to the cooperation agreement has a consent or approval right or has discretion to act or refrain from acting, the consent or approval of such party will only be granted and action will be taken or not taken only if a commercially reasonable owner would do so and such consent, approval, action or inaction would not have a material adverse effect on the property owned by such property owner. The cooperation agreement provides for the appointment of an independent expert to resolve some disputes between the parties, as well as for expedited arbitration for other disputes. Sale of The Grand Canal Shoppes or The Shoppes at The Palazzo by GGP. We have a right of first offer in connection with any proposed sale of The Grand Canal Shoppes or The Shoppes at The Palazzo by GGP. We also have the right to receive notice of any default by GGP sent by any lender holding a mortgage on The Grand Canal Shoppes or The Shoppes at The Palazzo, if any, and the right to cure such default subject to our meeting certain net worth tests. ITEM 1A. — RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with evaluating the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Certain statements in “Risk Factors” are forward-looking statements. See “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Business Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer and corporate spending as a result of downturns in the economy. Consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of luxury amenities we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or corporate spending on conventions and business travel could be driven by many factors, such as: perceived or actual general economic conditions; the current housing crisis and the credit crisis; high energy, fuel and food costs; the increased cost of travel; the potential for bank failures; the weakened job market; perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth; fears of recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy; or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. These factors could reduce consumer and corporate demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, thus imposing additional limits on pricing and harming our operations. 21 Table of Contents The terms of our debt instruments and our current debt service obligations may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to finance additional growth, respond to changes or take some actions that may otherwise be in our best interests. Our current debt instruments contain, and any future debt instruments likely will contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to: In addition, our Macao, Singapore and U.S. credit agreements contain various financial covenants. See “Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 1 — Organization and Business of Company — Development Financing Strategy” and “Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 9 — Long-Term Debt” for further description of these covenants and the potential impact of noncompliance. We also have substantial debt and significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2011, we had $9.58 billion of long-term debt outstanding. This substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to us. For example, it could: We expect that all of our projects currently under construction will be funded with existing cash balances, cash flows from operations and available borrowings from our existing credit facilities. We cannot assure you that we will obtain all the financing required for the construction and opening of our remaining planned projects on acceptable terms, if at all. 22 Table of Contents Disruptions in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise additional financing. Severe disruptions in the commercial credit markets in the last few years have resulted in a tightening of credit markets worldwide. Liquidity in the global credit markets was severely contracted by these market disruptions, making it difficult and costly to obtain new lines of credit or to refinance existing debt. The effect of these disruptions was widespread and difficult to quantify. While economic conditions have recently improved, that trend may not continue and the extent of the current economic improvement is unknown. Any future disruptions in the commercial credit markets may impact liquidity in the global credit market as greatly, or even more, than in recent years. Our business and financing plan may be dependent upon completion of future financings. If the credit environment worsens, it may be difficult to obtain any additional financing on acceptable terms, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to complete our remaining planned development projects, and as a consequence, our results of operations and business plans. Should general economic conditions not improve, if we are unable to obtain sufficient funding or applicable government approvals such that completion of our planned projects is not probable, or should management decide to abandon certain projects, all or a portion of our investment to date in our planned projects could be lost and would result in an impairment charge. We are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are required to obtain and maintain licenses from various jurisdictions in order to operate certain aspects of our business, and we are subject to extensive background investigations and suitability standards in our gaming business. We also will become subject to regulation in any other jurisdiction where we choose to operate in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain new licenses or renew any of our existing licenses, or that if such licenses are obtained, that such licenses will not be conditioned, suspended or revoked, and the loss, denial or non-renewal of any of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business or prospects. Our gaming operations and the ownership of our securities are subject to extensive regulation by the Nevada Commission, the Nevada Board and the CCLGLB. The Nevada Gaming Authorities have broad authority with respect to licensing and registration of our business entities and individuals investing in or otherwise involved with us. Although we currently are registered with, and LVSLLC and VCR currently hold gaming licenses issued by, the Nevada Gaming Authorities, these authorities may, among other things, revoke the gaming license of any corporate entity or the registration of a registered corporation or any entity registered as a holding company of a corporate licensee for violations of gaming regulations. In addition, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may, under certain conditions, revoke the license or finding of suitability of any officer, director, controlling person, stockholder, noteholder or key employee of a licensed or registered entity. If our gaming licenses were revoked for any reason, the Nevada Gaming Authorities could require the closing of the casinos, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations or licenses are significant. Any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. A similar dynamic exists in all jurisdictions where we operate and a regulatory action against one of our operating entities in any gaming jurisdiction could impact our operations in other gaming jurisdictions where we do business. For a more complete description of the gaming regulatory requirements that have an effect on our business, see “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing.” We are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. On February 9, 2011, LVSC received a subpoena from the SEC requesting that we produce documents relating to our compliance with the FCPA. We have also been advised by the Department of Justice that it is conducting a similar investigation. Any violation of the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 23 Table of Contents There are significant risks associated with our construction projects, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from these planned facilities. Our ongoing and future construction projects, such as our Cotai Strip projects, entail significant risks. Construction activity requires us to obtain qualified contractors and subcontractors, the availability of which may be uncertain. Construction projects are subject to cost overruns and delays caused by events outside of our control or, in certain cases, our contractors’ control, such as shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and unavailability of construction materials or equipment. Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite materials, licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from governmental or regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay, jeopardize, prevent the construction or opening of our projects, or otherwise affect the design and features. In addition, the number of ongoing projects and their locations throughout the world present unique challenges and risks to our management structure. If our management is unable to successfully manage our worldwide construction projects, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The anticipated costs and completion dates for our current projects are based on budgets, designs, development and construction documents and schedule estimates that we have prepared with the assistance of architects and other construction development consultants and that are subject to change as the design, development and construction documents are finalized and as actual construction work is performed. A failure to complete our projects on budget or on schedule may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The estimated costs to complete and open our remaining planned projects are currently not determinable with certainty and therefore may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See also “— Risks Associated with Our International Operations — We are required to build and open our Cotai Strip development on parcel 3 by April 2013, which we will be unable to meet, and Sands Cotai Central by May 2014. If we are unable to meet the applicable deadline for Sands Cotai Central and the deadlines for either development are not extended, we may lose the respective land concession, which would prohibit us from operating any facilities developed under such land concession.” Because we are currently dependent primarily upon our properties in three markets for all of our cash flow, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties or that operates in more markets. We currently do not have material operations other than our Macao, Singapore and Las Vegas properties. As a result, we are primarily dependent upon these properties for all of our cash. Given that our operations are currently conducted primarily at properties in Macao, Singapore and Las Vegas and that a large portion of our planned future development is in Macao, we will be subject to greater degrees of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties or that operates in more markets. The risks to which we will have a greater degree of exposure include the following: Our indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of our assets, except for our equity interests in our subsidiaries. Subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our debt is secured by liens on substantially all of our assets, except for our equity interests in our subsidiaries. In the event of a default under our financing agreements, or if we experience insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of our secured debt instruments would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of our unsecured debt and equity holders be entitled to payment from our remaining assets. 24 Table of Contents Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain the same insurance coverage in the future. We have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our properties in operation as well as those in the course of construction with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary in their breadth and scope. Market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we can obtain or our ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. Certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, or certain liabilities may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. As a result, we may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. In addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. As a result, we could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum level of insurance. Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under these debt instruments or material agreements. We depend on the continued services of key managers and employees. If we do not retain our key personnel or attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business will suffer. Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the services of our senior management team, including Sheldon G. Adelson and our other executive officers. The loss of Mr. Adelson’s services or the services of our other senior managers, or the inability to attract and retain additional senior management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mr. Adelson’s employment agreement is scheduled to expire in December 2012 and is subject to extensions. The interests of our principal stockholder in our business may be different from yours. Mr. Adelson, his family members and trusts and other entities established for the benefit of Mr. Adelson and/or his family members (collectively our “Principal Stockholder’s family”) beneficially own (excluding unexercised warrants to purchase 87.5 million shares of our common stock) approximately 47% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2011. Our Principal Stockholder’s family has indicated their intent to exercise their outstanding warrants in March 2012, which would result in our Principal Stockholder’s family beneficially owning approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, Mr. Adelson exercises significant influence over our business policies and affairs, including the composition of our Board of Directors and any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our articles of incorporation and the approval of a merger or sale of substantially all of our assets. The concentration of ownership may also delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of Mr. Adelson. The interests of Mr. Adelson may conflict with your interests. We are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our subsidiaries. We are a parent company with limited business operations of our own. Our main asset is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We conduct most of our business operations through our direct and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and cash flow generated by our operating properties. Our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. Our subsidiaries’ payments to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations. In addition, our subsidiaries’ debt instruments and other agreements limit or prohibit certain payments of dividends or other distributions to us. We expect that future debt instruments for the financing of our other developments will contain similar restrictions. Our business is sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel. Acts of terrorism, regional political events and developments in the conflicts in certain countries could cause severe disruptions in air travel that reduce the number of visitors to our facilities, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. Only a small amount of our business is and will be generated by local residents. Most of our customers travel to reach our Macao, Singapore, Las Vegas and Pennsylvania properties. Acts of terrorism may severely disrupt domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease in customer visits to Macao, Singapore, Las Vegas and Pennsylvania, including our properties. Regional conflicts could have a similar effect on domestic and international travel. Management cannot predict the extent to which disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any further terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities or escalation of war would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 25 Table of Contents We extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit players. We conduct our gaming activities on a credit and cash basis. Any such credit we extend is unsecured. Table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. During the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 27.5%, 34.5% and 71.7% of our table games drop at our Macao properties, Marina Bay Sands and our Las Vegas properties, respectively, was from credit-based wagering, while table games play at our Pennsylvania property is primarily conducted on a cash basis. We extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. These large receivables could have a significant impact on our results of operations if deemed uncollectible. While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a “marker,” and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from courts in the U.S. and elsewhere are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. A failure to establish and protect our IP rights could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We endeavor to establish and protect our IP rights and our goods and services through trademarks and service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, domain names, licenses, other contractual provisions, employee nondisclosure agreements, and confidentiality and information-security measures and procedures. Our failure to possess, obtain or maintain adequate protection of our IP rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Examples of such a potential failure include: (1) if one of our marks becomes so well known by the public that its use is deemed generic, we could lose exclusive rights to such mark or be forced to rebrand; (2) if a third party claims we have infringed, currently infringe, or could in the future infringe its IP rights, we may need to cease use of such IP or take other steps; (3) if third parties violate their obligations to us to maintain confidentiality of our proprietary information or there is a security breach or lapse, our business may be affected; or (4) if third parties misappropriate or infringe our IP, our business may be affected. Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of SCL. In November 2009, our subsidiary, SCL, listed its ordinary shares on The Main Board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the “SCL Offering”). We currently own 70.3% of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of SCL. As a result of SCL having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of SCL may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of SCL. Decisions that could have different implications for us and SCL, including contractual arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with SCL may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest. Changes in tax laws and regulations could impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to taxation and regulation by various government agencies, primarily in Macao, Singapore and the U.S. (federal, state and local levels). From time to time, U.S. federal, state, local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and the application of these rules, which could result in higher taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law or interpretation. In particular, government agencies may make changes that could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-U.S. operations. Like most U.S. companies, our effective income tax rate reflects the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the U.S. is taxed at local rates, which are often lower than U.S. tax rates. If changes in tax laws and regulations were to significantly increase the tax rates on non-U.S. income, these changes could increase our income tax expense and liability, and therefore, could have an adverse effect on our effective income tax rate, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Natural or man-made disasters, an outbreak of highly infectious disease, terrorist activity or war could adversely affect the number of visitors to our facilities and disrupt our operations, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. So called “Acts of God,” such as typhoons, particularly in Macao, and other natural disasters, man-made disasters, outbreaks of highly infectious diseases, such as avian flu, SARS and H1N1 flu, terrorist activity or war may result in decreases in travel to and from, and economic activity in, areas in which we operate, and may adversely affect the number of visitors to our properties. Any of these events also may disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business, could generally disrupt our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Although we have insurance coverage with respect to some of these events, we cannot assure you that any such coverage will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against all direct and indirect costs, including any loss of business that could result from substantial damage to, or partial or complete destruction of, any of our properties. Our failure to maintain the integrity of our internal or customer data could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows, and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits . Our business requires the collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third-parties with whom we contract to provide services. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee and company data is important to us. The regulatory environment, as well as the requirements imposed on us by the payment card industry surrounding information, security and privacy, is also increasingly demanding, in both the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our systems may be unable to satisfy changing regulatory and payment card industry requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. Our information systems and records, including those we maintain with our service providers, may be subject to security breaches, system failures, viruses, operator error or inadvertent releases of data. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer, employee or company data maintained by us or by a service provider could have an adverse effect on our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines or litigation. A breach in the security of our information systems or those of our service providers could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Risks Associated with Our International Operations Conducting business in Macao and Singapore has certain political and economic risks, which may have an adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of our Asian operations. Our operations in Macao include The Venetian Macao, Four Seasons Macao and Sands Macao. We plan to open and operate additional hotels, gaming areas and meeting space within the Cotai Strip in Macao, including Sands Cotai Central, which is scheduled to open in April 2012. We also own and operate the Marina Bay Sands in Singapore. Accordingly, our business development plans, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by significant political, social and economic developments in Macao and Singapore, and by changes in policies of the governments or changes in laws and regulations or their interpretations. Our operations in Macao and Singapore are also exposed to the risk of changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies based in those countries. Jurisdictional tax laws and regulations may also be subject to amendment or different interpretation and implementation, thereby having an adverse effect on our profitability after tax. These changes may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As we expect a significant number of consumers to continue to come to our Macao properties from mainland China, general economic conditions and policies in China could have a significant impact on our financial prospects. Any slowdown in economic growth or changes to China’s current restrictions on travel and currency movements could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland China to our casinos in Macao as well as the amounts they are willing to spend in our casinos. See “— The number of visitors to Macao, particularly visitors from mainland China, may decline or travel to Macao may be disrupted.” Current Macao laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations. We believe that our organizational structure and operations are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations of Macao. These laws and regulations are complex and a court or an administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue regulations, which differs from our interpretation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As Marina Bay Sands is one of two gaming facilities in Singapore following the government’s adoption of gaming legislation in 2005, the laws and regulations relating to gaming and their interpretations are untested. 27 Table of Contents In addition, our activities in Macao and Singapore are subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, which may have a material adverse effect on our long-term business strategy and operations. Macao and Singapore laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues. During December 2010, we received notice from the Macao government that our application for a land concession for parcels 7 and 8 was not approved. If we do not obtain the land concession or do not receive full reimbursement of our capitalized investment in this project, we would record a charge for all or some portion of our investment in this site and would not be able to build or operate the planned facilities on this site. In December 2010, we received notice from the Macao government that our application for a land concession for parcels 7 and 8 was not approved and we applied to the Chief Executive of Macao for an executive review of the decision. In January 2011, we filed a judicial appeal with the Court of Second Instance in Macao, which has yet to issue a decision. Should we win our judicial appeal, it is still possible for the Chief Executive of Macao to again deny the land concession based upon public policy considerations. If we do not obtain the land concession or do not receive full reimbursement of our capitalized investment in this project, we would record a charge for all or some portion of the $101.1 million in capitalized construction costs, as of December 31, 2011, related to our development on parcels 7 and 8, and would not be able to build or operate the planned facilities on this site. We are required to build and open our Cotai Strip development on parcel 3 by April 2013, which we will be unable to meet, and Sands Cotai Central by May 2014. If we are unable to meet the applicable deadline for Sands Cotai Central and the deadlines for either development are not extended, we may lose the respective land concession, which would prohibit us from operating any facilities developed under such land concession. We received a land concession from the Macao government covering parcels 1, 2 and 3, including the sites on which The Venetian Macao (parcel 1) and Four Seasons Macao (parcel 2) are located. The Macao government granted us a two-year extension of the development deadline under the land concession for Parcel 3 and we have submitted preliminary plans to the Macao government, but have not received a decision on approval for development. Under the terms of the land concession, we must complete development of parcel 3 by April 17, 2013. The land concession for Sands Cotai Central (parcels 5 and 6) contains a similar requirement that the corresponding development be completed by May 2014 (48 months from the date the land concession became effective). See “— Risks Related to Our Business — Disruptions in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise additional financing,” “— Risks Related to Our Business — There are significant risks associated with our construction projects, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from these planned facilities” and “— Conducting business in Macao and Singapore has certain political and economic risks, which may have an adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of our Asian operations.” We intend to apply for an extension from the Macao government to complete our parcel 3 development as we will be unable to meet the April 2013 deadline. Should we determine that we are unable to complete Sands Cotai Central by May 2014, we also intend to apply for an extension from the Macao government. If we are unable to meet the applicable deadline for Sands Cotai Central and the deadlines for either development are not extended, the Macao government has the right to unilaterally terminate our respective land concessions for parcel 3 or Sands Cotai Central. A loss of the land concession would prohibit us from operating any properties developed under the land concession for parcel 3 or Sands Cotai Central. As a result, we could record a charge for all or some portion of our $96.0 million and $3.06 billion in capitalized costs and land premiums (net of amortization), as of December 31, 2011, for parcel 3 or Sands Cotai Central, respectively. Our Macao subconcession can be terminated under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Macao government has the right, after consultation with Galaxy, to unilaterally terminate our subconcession in the event of VML’s serious non-compliance with its basic obligations under the subconcession and applicable Macao laws. Upon termination of our subconcession, our casinos and gaming-related equipment would automatically be transferred to the Macao government without compensation to us and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. The loss of our subconcession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in Macao, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 28 Table of Contents Our Singapore concession can be terminated under certain circumstances without compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Development Agreement between MBS and the STB contains events of default which could permit the STB to terminate the agreement without compensation to us. If the Development Agreement is terminated, we could lose our right to operate the Marina Bay Sands and our investment in Marina Bay Sands could be lost. For a more complete description of the Singapore gaming regulatory requirements applicable to beneficial owners of our voting securities, see “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing — Development Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board.” We will stop generating any revenues from our Macao gaming operations if we cannot secure an extension of our subconcession in 2022 or if the Macao government exercises its redemption right. Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022. Unless our subconcession is extended, all of VML’s casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the Macao government on that date without compensation to us and we will cease to generate revenues from these gaming operations. Beginning on December 26, 2017, the Macao government may redeem the subconcession agreement by providing us at least one year prior notice. In the event the Macao government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of this compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by The Venetian Macao during the tax year prior to the redemption multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our subconcession agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. We also cannot assure you that if our subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues. The number of visitors to Macao, particularly visitors from mainland China, may decline or travel to Macao may be disrupted. Our VIP and mass market gaming patrons typically come from nearby destinations in Asia, including mainland China, Hong Kong, South Korea and Japan. Increasingly, a significant number of gaming patrons come to our casinos from mainland China. Any slowdown in economic growth or changes of China’s current restrictions on travel and currency movements could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland China to our casinos in Macao as well as the amounts they are willing and able to spend while at our properties. Policies and measures adopted from time to time by the Chinese government include restrictions imposed on exit visas granted to residents of mainland China for travel to Macao and Hong Kong. These measures have, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number of visitors to Macao from mainland China, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in Macao. Our Macao operations face intense competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The hotel, resort and casino businesses are highly competitive. Our Macao operations currently compete with numerous other casinos located in Macao. Our Macao operations will also compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in Asia, including Singapore, Australia, New Zealand and elsewhere in the world, including Las Vegas. In addition, certain countries have legalized, and others may in the future legalize, casino gaming, including Hong Kong, Japan, Taiwan and Thailand. The proliferation of gaming venues in Southeast Asia could have a significant and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Macao and Singapore governments could grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We hold a subconcession under one of only three gaming concessions authorized by the Macao government to operate casinos in Macao. No additional concessions have been granted since 2002; however, if the Macao government were to allow additional gaming operators in Macao through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 29 Table of Contents We hold one of two licenses granted by the Singapore government to develop an integrated resort, including a casino. Under the Request for Proposal, the CRA is required to ensure that there will not be more than two casino licenses during a ten-year exclusive period that began on March 1, 2007. If the Singapore government were to license additional casinos, we would face additional competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may not be able to attract and retain professional staff necessary for our existing and future operations in Macao and Singapore. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and motivate skilled employees at our properties. In addition, the Macao government requires that we only hire Macao residents as dealers in our casinos. There is significant competition in Macao and Singapore for employees with the skills required to perform the services we offer and competition for these individuals in Macao is likely to increase as we open Sands Cotai Central and our remaining Cotai Strip developments and as other competitors expand their operations. There can be no assurance that a sufficient number of construction labor and skilled employees will be available or that we will be successful in training, retaining and motivating current or future employees. If we are unable to obtain, attract, retain and train skilled employees, our ability to adequately manage and staff our existing and planned casino and resort properties in Macao and Singapore could be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are dependent upon gaming junket operators for a significant portion of our gaming revenues in Macao. Junket operators, which promote gaming and draw high-roller customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant portion of our gaming revenues in Macao. With the rise in gaming in Macao, the competition for relationships with junket operators has increased. While we are undertaking initiatives to strengthen our relationships with our current junket operators, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain, or grow, our relationships with junket operators. If we are unable to maintain or grow our relationships with junket operators, or if the junket operators experience financial difficulties or are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-roller customers, our ability to grow our gaming revenues will be hampered. In addition, the quality of junket operators is important to our reputation and our ability to continue to operate in compliance with our gaming licenses. While we strive for excellence in our associations with junket operators, we cannot assure you that the junket operators with whom we are associated will meet the high standards we insist upon. If a junket operator falls below our standards, we may suffer reputational harm, as well as worsening relationships with, and possible sanctions from, gaming regulators with authority over our operations. Our business could be adversely affected by the limitations of the pataca exchange markets and restrictions on the export of the renminbi. Our revenues in Macao are denominated in patacas, the legal currency of Macao, and Hong Kong dollars. The Macao pataca and the Hong Kong dollar are linked to each other and, in many cases, are used interchangeably in Macao. Although currently permitted, we cannot assure you that patacas will continue to be freely exchangeable into U.S. dollars. Also, because the currency market for patacas is relatively small and undeveloped, our ability to convert large amounts of patacas into U.S. dollars over a relatively short period may be limited. As a result, we may experience difficulty in converting patacas into U.S. dollars. We are currently prohibited from accepting wagers in renminbi, the legal currency of China. There are also restrictions on the export of the renminbi outside of mainland China and the amount of renminbi that can be converted into foreign currencies, including the pataca and Hong Kong dollar. Restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from mainland China to Macao, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macao and negatively impact our gaming operations. On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced that the renminbi will no longer be pegged to the U.S. dollar, but will be allowed to float in a band (and, to a limited extent, increase in value) against a basket of foreign currencies. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong dollar. Certain Asian countries have publicly asserted their desire to eliminate the peg of the Hong Kong dollar to the U.S. dollar. As a result, we cannot assure you that the Hong Kong dollar and the Macao pataca will continue to be pegged to the U.S. dollar or that the current peg rate for these currencies will remain at the same level. The floating of the renminbi and possible changes to the peg of the Hong Kong dollar may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate for these currencies. Any change in such exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations and on our ability to make payments on certain of our debt instruments. We do not currently hedge for foreign currency risk. 30 Table of Contents Certain Nevada gaming laws apply to our gaming activities and associations in other jurisdictions where we operate or plan to operate. Certain Nevada gaming laws also apply to our gaming activities and associations in jurisdictions outside the State of Nevada. We are required to comply with certain reporting requirements concerning our proposed gaming activities and associations occurring outside the State of Nevada, including Macao, Singapore and other jurisdictions. We will also be subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if: In addition, if the Nevada Board determines that one of our actual or intended activities or associations in a foreign gaming operation may violate one or more of the foregoing, we can be required to file an application with the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability of such activity or association. If the Nevada Commission finds that the activity or association in the foreign gaming operation is unsuitable or prohibited, we will either be required to terminate the activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association. Consequently, should the Nevada Commission find that our gaming activities or associations in Macao or certain other jurisdictions where we operate are unsuitable, we may be prohibited from undertaking our planned gaming activities or associations in those jurisdictions. The gaming authorities in other jurisdictions where we operate or plan to operate, including in Macao and Singapore, exercise similar powers for purposes of assessing suitability in relation to our activities in other gaming jurisdictions where we do business. We may not be able to monetize some of our real estate assets. Part of our business strategy in Macao relies upon our ability to profitably operate, sell and/or grant rights of use over certain of our real estate assets once developed, including retail malls and apart-hotels, and to use the proceeds of these operations and sales to refinance, or repay, in part our construction loans for these assets, as well as to fund existing and future development both in Macao and elsewhere. Our ability to monetize these assets will be subject to market conditions, applicable legislation, the receipt of necessary government approvals and other factors. If we are unable to profitably operate and/or monetize these real estate assets, we will have to seek alternative sources of capital to refinance in part our construction loans and for other investment capital. These alternative sources of capital may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. VML may have financial and other obligations to foreign workers managed by its contractors under government labor quotas. The Macao government has granted VML a quota to permit it to hire foreign workers. VML has effectively assigned the management of this quota to its contractors for the construction of our Cotai Strip projects. VML, however, remains ultimately liable for all employer obligations relating to these employees, including for payment of wages and taxes and compliance with labor and workers’ compensation laws. VML requires each contractor to whom it has assigned the management of part of its labor quota to indemnify VML for any costs or liabilities VML incurs as a result of such contractor’s failure to fulfill employer obligations. VML’s agreements with its contractors also contain provisions that permit it to retain some payments for up to one year after the contractors’ complete work on the projects. We cannot assure you that VML’s contractors will fulfill their obligations to employees hired under the labor quotas or to VML under the indemnification agreements, or that the amount of any indemnification payments received will be sufficient to pay for any obligations VML may owe to employees managed by contractors under VML’s quotas. Until we make final payments to our contractors, we have offset rights to collect amounts they may owe us, including amounts owed under the indemnities relating to employer obligations. After we have made the final payments, it may be more difficult for us to enforce any unpaid indemnity obligations. 31 Table of Contents The transportation infrastructure in Macao may need to be expanded to meet increased visitation in Macao. Macao is in the process of expanding its transportation infrastructure to service the increased number of visitors to Macao. If the planned expansions of transportation facilities to and from Macao are delayed or not completed, and Macao’s transportation infrastructure is insufficient to meet the demands of an increased volume of visitors to Macao, the desirability of Macao as a gaming and tourist destination, as well as the results of operations of our Macao properties, could be negatively impacted. We are currently not required to pay corporate income taxes on our casino gaming operations in Macao. Additionally, we currently have an agreement with the Macao government that provides for a fixed annual payment that is a substitution for a 12% tax otherwise due on dividends distributed from our Macao gaming operations. These tax arrangements expire at the end of 2013. We have had the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in Macao, which exempts us from paying the 12% corporate income tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games. We will continue to benefit from this tax exemption through the end of 2013. Additionally, we entered into an agreement with the Macao government in February 2011, effective through the end of 2013 that provides for an annual payment that is a substitution for a 12% tax otherwise due from VML shareholders on dividend distributions paid from VML gaming profits. We will request a 5-year extension of both of these tax arrangements; however, we cannot assure you that either of the extensions will be granted and we do not expect the arrangements to apply to our non-gaming activities. Risks Associated with Our U.S. Operations We face significant competition in Las Vegas, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, any significant downturn in the trade show and convention business could have a significant and adverse effect on our mid-week occupancy rates and business. The hotel, resort and casino businesses in Las Vegas are highly competitive. We also compete, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in Nevada and Atlantic City, as well as hotel/casinos and other resort facilities and vacation destinations elsewhere in the United States and around the world. In addition, various competitors on the Las Vegas Strip periodically expand and/or renovate their existing facilities. If demand for hotel rooms does not keep up with the increase in the number of hotel rooms, competitive pressures may cause reductions in average room rates. We also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on Native American tribal lands, including those located in California. While the competitive impact on our operations in Las Vegas from the continued growth of Native American gaming establishments in California remains uncertain, the proliferation of gaming in California and other areas located in the same region as our Las Vegas Operating Properties could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, certain states have legalized, and others may legalize, casino gaming in specific areas, including metropolitan areas from which we traditionally attract customers. A number of states have permitted or are considering permitting gaming at “racinos” (combined race tracks and casinos), on Native American reservations and through expansion of state lotteries. The current global trend toward liberalization of gaming restrictions and resulting proliferation of gaming venues could result in a decrease in the number of visitors to our Las Vegas facilities by attracting customers close to home and away from Las Vegas, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Also, on December 23, 2011, the U.S. Department of Justice reversed previous opinions on the permissibility of state-sanctioned lottery sales on the internet on an intrastate basis. Those states that permit these distribution channels may also expand the gaming offerings of their lotteries in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our business. The Sands Expo Center provides recurring demand for mid-week room nights for business travelers who attend meetings, trade shows and conventions in Las Vegas. The Sands Expo Center presently competes with other large convention centers, including convention centers in Las Vegas and other cities. To the extent that these competitors are able to capture a substantially larger portion of the trade show and convention business, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 32 Table of Contents Certain beneficial owners of our voting securities may be required to file an application with, and be investigated by, the Nevada Gaming Authorities, and the Nevada Commission may restrict the ability of a beneficial owner to receive any benefit from our voting securities and may require the disposition of shares of our voting securities, if a beneficial owner is found to be unsuitable. Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10% of our voting securities will be required to apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails a written notice requiring the filing. Under certain circumstances, an “institutional investor” as defined under the regulations of the Nevada Commission, which acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of our voting securities (subject to certain additional holdings as a result of certain debt restructurings or stock repurchase programs under the Nevada Act), may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability requirement if the institutional investor holds our voting securities only for investment purposes. In addition, any beneficial owner of our voting securities, regardless of the number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the discretion of the Nevada Commission to file an application for a finding of suitability as such. In either case, a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing and the applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting the investigation. Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within thirty days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Gaming Authorities may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common stock of a registered corporation beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We are subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us or a licensed subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed subsidiaries: For a more complete description of the Nevada gaming regulatory requirements applicable to beneficial owners of our voting securities, see “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing — State of Nevada.” Certain beneficial owners of our voting securities may be required to file a license application with, and be investigated by, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the Pennsylvania State Police and other agencies. Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of our voting securities will be required to apply to the PaGCB for licensure, obtain licensure and remain licensed. Licensure requires, among other things, that the applicant establish by clear and convincing evidence the applicant’s good character, honesty and integrity. Additionally, any trust that holds 5% or more of our voting securities is required to be licensed by the PaGCB and each individual who is a grantor, trustee or beneficiary of the trust is also required to be licensed by the PaGCB. Under certain circumstances and under the regulations of the PaGCB, an “institutional investor” as defined under the regulations of the PaGCB, which acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more, but less than 10%, of our voting securities, may not be required to be licensed by the PaGCB provided the PaGCB grants a waiver of the licensure requirement. In addition, any beneficial owner of our voting securities, regardless of the number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the discretion of the PaGCB to file an application for licensure. Furthermore, a person or a group of persons acting in concert who acquire(s) more than 20% of our securities, with the exception of the ownership interest of a person at the time of original licensure when the license fee was paid, would trigger a “change in control” (as defined under applicable law). Such a change in control could require us to re-apply for licensure by the PaGCB and incur a $50.0 million license fee. In the event a security holder is required to be found qualified and is not found qualified, or fails to apply for qualification, such security holder may be required by the PaGCB to divest of the interest at a price not exceeding the cost of the interest. 33 Table of Contents For a more complete description of the Pennsylvania gaming regulatory requirements applicable to beneficial owners of our voting securities, see “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing — Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.” If GGP (or any future owner of The Shoppes at The Palazzo or The Grand Canal Shoppes) breaches any of its material agreements with us or if we are unable to maintain an acceptable working relationship with GGP (or any future owner), there could be a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We have entered into agreements with GGP under which, among other things, GGP has agreed to operate The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo subject to, and in accordance with, the cooperation agreement. Our agreements with GGP could be adversely affected in ways that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows if we do not maintain an acceptable working relationship with GGP or its successors. For example, the cooperation agreement that governs the relationships between The Shoppes at The Palazzo and The Palazzo and The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Venetian Las Vegas requires that the owners cooperate in various ways and take various joint actions, which will be more difficult to accomplish, especially in a cost-effective manner, if the parties do not have an acceptable working relationship. There could be similar material adverse consequences to us if GGP breaches any of its agreements with us, such as its agreement under the cooperation agreement to operate The Grand Canal Shoppes consistent with the standards of first-class restaurant and retail complexes and the overall Venetian theme, and its various obligations as our landlord under the leases described above. Although our agreements with GGP provide us with various remedies in the event of any breaches by GGP and include various dispute resolution procedures and mechanisms, these remedies, procedures and mechanisms may be inadequate to prevent a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows if breaches by GGP occur or if we do not maintain an acceptable working relationship with GGP.