of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which disclosures are incorporated by reference herein. ​ 28 Table of Contents Governance ​ The Company’s Board of Directors is actively engaged in oversight of cybersecurity, and it is part of the responsibilities of our Audit Committee. The Company’s Chief Technology and Information Officer (CTIO) and Chief Executive Officer keep the Board informed on cybersecurity and privacy matters throughout the year, which address a wide range of topics including recent developments, evolving standards, vulnerability assessments, third-party and independent reviews, the threat environment, technological trends, and information security considerations arising with respect to the Company’s peers and third parties. The Board and the Audit Committee also receive prompt and timely information regarding any cybersecurity incident that meets established reporting thresholds, as well as ongoing updates regarding any such incident until it has been addressed. The Company’s cybersecurity risk management and strategy processes, which are discussed in greater detail above, are led by our CTIO and our Vice President IT Risk Management. The Company’s CTIO works collaboratively across the Company to implement a program designed to protect the Company’s information systems from cybersecurity threats and to promptly respond to any cybersecurity incidents in accordance with the Company’s incident response plans. To facilitate the success of the Company’s cybersecurity risk management program, we have a unified and centrally coordinated team, led by our Vice President IT Risk Management, that is responsible for implementing and maintaining centralized cybersecurity and data protection practices in close coordination with senior leadership and other teams across Ulta Beauty. Reporting to our Vice President IT Risk Management are a number of trained cybersecurity professionals. In addition to our extensive in-house cybersecurity capabilities, at times we also engage consultants, auditors, or other third parties to assist with assessing, identifying, and managing cybersecurity risks. The Company’s CTIO leads the core elements of Ulta Beauty’s IT and Digital functions, including IT infrastructure, systems and security, digital experience and operations, and consumer technology. He has served in various roles in information technology and information security for over 30 years, including serving as the Global Chief Technology Officer of a large public company prior to joining the Company. The Vice President IT Risk Management leads our information risk management organization responsible for overseeing the Company’s information security program. She has over 25 years of industry experience, including serving in similar roles leading and overseeing cybersecurity programs at other public companies. ​ 29 Table of Contents