and Item 7. — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-K and those discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). All cautionary statements made herein should be read as being applicable to all forward-looking statements wherever they appear. Investors should consider the risks and uncertainties described herein and should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We do not undertake, and specifically disclaim, any obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions that may be made to any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, events, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We do not assume responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any forward-looking statements. We assume no responsibility for updating forward-looking information contained or incorporated by reference herein or in any documents we file with the SEC. Should one or more of the risks or uncertainties described herein or in any documents we file with the SEC occur, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results and plans could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. i Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW EchoStar Corporation (which, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to as “EchoStar,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and/or “our”) is a holding company that was organized in October 2007 as a corporation under the laws of the State of Nevada. We are a global provider of satellite service operations, video delivery solutions, digital set-top boxes, broadband satellite technologies and broadband services for home and small office customers. We deliver innovative network technologies, managed services, and various communications solutions for enterprise and government customers. Our Class A common stock is publicly traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (“Nasdaq”) under the symbol “SATS.” We currently operate in the following three business segments: Following consummation of the Share Exchange described below under “Pending Share Exchange,” we will no longer operate the EchoStar Technologies business segment. Our operations also include real estate and other activities that have not been assigned to our operating segments, including costs incurred in certain satellite development programs and other business development activities, expenses of various corporate departments, and our centralized treasury operations, including income from our investment portfolio and interest expense on our debt. In 2008, DISH Network completed its distribution to us of its digital set-top box business, certain infrastructure, and other assets and related liabilities, including certain of its satellites, uplink and satellite transmission assets, and real estate (the “Spin-off”). Since the Spin-off, EchoStar and DISH Network have operated as separate publicly-traded companies. However, as a result of the Satellite and Tracking Stock Transaction, described in Note 4 in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this report , DISH Network owns preferred tracking stock in EchoStar Corporation and one of our subsidiaries representing an aggregate 80.0% economic interest in the residential retail satellite broadband business of our Hughes segment. The tracking stock is an equity security and the rights of DISH Network, as the holder of the tracking stock, in our assets are subject to the claims of our creditors. In addition, a substantial majority of the voting power of the shares of EchoStar and DISH Network is owned beneficially by Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, and by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. 1 Table of Contents PENDING SHARE EXCHANGE On January 31, 2017, EchoStar and certain subsidiaries of EchoStar entered into a Share Exchange Agreement (the “Share Exchange Agreement”) among DISH Network Corporation (“DISH”), DISH Network L.L.C., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of DISH (“DNLLC”), DISH Operating L.L.C., a direct wholly owned subsidiary of DNLLC (“DOLLC” and, collectively with DISH and DNLLC, the “DISH Parties”), EchoStar, EchoStar Broadcasting Holding Parent L.L.C., a direct wholly owned subsidiary of EchoStar’s subsidiary Hughes Satellite Systems Corporation (“EB LLC”), EchoStar Broadcasting Holding Corporation, a direct wholly owned subsidiary of EB LLC (“EB Corp”), EchoStar Technologies Holding Corporation, a direct wholly owned subsidiary of EchoStar (“ET Corp”), and EchoStar Technologies L.L.C., a direct wholly owned subsidiary of EchoStar. Pursuant to the Share Exchange Agreement, among other things: (i) EchoStar will receive all of the shares of EchoStar Tracking Stock (as defined below) owned by DNLLC in exchange for 100% of the equity interests of ET Corp, which will hold that portion of the EchoStar Technologies business segment of EchoStar that (a) designs, develops and distributes secure end-to-end video technology solutions including digital set-top boxes and related products and technology, primarily for satellite TV service providers and telecommunication companies, (b) provides TV Anywhere technology through Slingbox® units directly to consumers via retail outlets and online, as well as to the pay-TV operator market, and (c) includes our over-the-top, Streaming Video on Demand platform business, which includes assets acquired from Sling TV Holding L.L.C. (formerly DISH Digital Holding L.L.C.) and primarily provides support services to DISH’s Sling TV™ operations, and (ii) EB LLC will receive all of the shares of HSS Tracking Stock (as defined below) owned by DOLLC in exchange for 100% of the equity interests of EB Corp, which will hold EchoStar’s business of providing online video delivery and satellite video delivery for broadcasters and pay-TV operators, including satellite uplinking/downlinking, transmission services, signal processing, conditional access management and other services ((i) and (ii) collectively, the “Share Exchange”). Pursuant to the Share Exchange Agreement, EchoStar will also transfer certain assets, investments in joint ventures, spectrum licenses and real estate properties and the DISH Parties will assume certain liabilities relating to the transferring assets and businesses. In connection with the Share Exchange, EchoStar and DISH Network and certain of their subsidiaries will enter into certain customary agreements covering, among other things, matters relating to taxes, employees, intellectual property and the provision of transitional services. The Share Exchange has been structured in a manner to be a tax-free exchange for each of EchoStar and DISH. In March 2014, EchoStar and its subsidiary Hughes Satellite Systems Corporation (“HSS”) each issued shares of preferred stock (the “EchoStar Tracking Stock” and “HSS Tracking Stock,” respectively, and together, the “Tracking Stock”) to DNLLC and DOLLC, respectively. The Tracking Stock tracks the economic performance of the residential retail satellite broadband business of our Hughes segment, including certain operations, assets and liabilities attributed to such business (collectively, the “Hughes Retail Group” or “HRG”), and represents in the aggregate an 80.0% economic interest in the Hughes Retail Group (the EchoStar Tracking Stock representing a 51.89% and the HSS Tracking Stock representing a 28.11% economic interest in the Hughes Retail Group, respectively). Following the closing of the Share Exchange, the Tracking Stock will be retired and all agreements, arrangements and policy statements with respect to, and terms of, the Tracking Stock will terminate and be of no further effect. For more information regarding the Tracking Stock, see Note 4 in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this report . The Share Exchange is expected to be consummated three business days after the satisfaction or waiver of all of the closing conditions to the transaction (other than conditions that by their nature are to be satisfied at the closing, but subject to the satisfaction of those conditions at such time), but no earlier than February 28, 2017. The Share Exchange Agreement provides for customary termination rights of EchoStar and DISH, including the right of either party to terminate the Share Exchange Agreement if the Share Exchange has not closed by March 31, 2017. The closing conditions to the transaction involving third parties or governmental approvals have been satisfied (other than those that by their nature are to be satisfied at the closing). While we currently expect the Share Exchange to be consummated on or about February 28, 2017, no assurance can be given that the Share Exchange will be consummated on the terms or within the time frame disclosed, or at all. See “Risks Related to the Pending Share Exchange” in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For more information regarding the Share Exchange, see Note 20 in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this report and our Current Report on Form 8-K filed January 31, 2017. 2 Table of Contents BUSINESS STRATEGIES Capitalize on demand for broadband services . We intend to capitalize on the global demand for satellite-delivered broadband services and enterprise solutions by utilizing, among other things, our industry expertise, technology leadership, increased satellite capacity, access to spectrum resources, and high-quality, reliable service to drive growth in consumer subscribers and enterprise customers. Expand satellite capacity and related infrastructure. With the launch in December 2016 of the EchoStar XIX satellite and the expected start of service on the satellite late in the first quarter of 2017, we expect to significantly increase our satellite capacity in North America, Mexico and certain Latin American countries and to add capability for aeronautical, enterprise and international broadband services. We expect that our expertise in the identification, acquisition and development of satellite spectrum and orbital rights and satellite operations, together with our increased satellite capacity and existing, acquired or developed infrastructure, will provide opportunities to enter new international markets. We also believe market opportunities exist that will facilitate the acquisition or leasing of additional satellite capacity which will enable us to provide services to a broader customer base, including providers of pay-TV services, satellite-delivered broadband, corporate communications, and government services. Continue development of S-band and other hybrid spectrum resources. We believe we remain in a unique position to deploy a European wide mobile satellite service (“MSS”)/complementary ground component (“CGC”) network and maximize the long-term value of our S-band spectrum, in Europe and other regions within the scope of our licenses. We will also continue to explore development of S-band similar spectrum assets in additional international markets. Exploit our video delivery expertise. With our extensive experience in designing, developing, and operating video delivery systems for satellite direct-to-home (“DTH”) and internet streaming, we believe we can leverage the broader adoption of advanced technologies such as placeshifting functionality, hybrid internet offerings and other in-home solutions to create opportunities for us. Therefore, if the Share Exchange is not consummated, we will continue to explore opportunities, including partnerships, joint ventures and strategic acquisitions, to expand our existing markets or enter new markets. In addition, if the Share Exchange is not consummated, we intend to seek opportunities to license our technology to other original equipment manufacturers and pay-TV providers. Develop improved and new technologies . Our engineering capabilities provide us with the opportunity to develop and deploy cutting edge technologies, license our technologies to others, and maintain a leading technological position in the industries in which we are active. BUSINESS SEGMENTS HUGHES SEGMENT Our Products and Services Our Hughes segment is a global provider of broadband satellite technologies and broadband services for home and small office customers. We deliver network technologies, managed services, equipment, and communications solutions for domestic and international consumers and enterprise and government customers. In addition, our Hughes segment provides and installs gateway and terminal equipment and provides satellite ground segment systems and terminals for other satellite systems, including mobile system operators. Our Hughes segment provides satellite broadband internet access and satellite technologies to North American home and office costumers, which we refer to as the consumer market, and broadband network technologies, managed services, equipment and communications solutions to domestic and international enterprise and government customers. Our Hughes segment also provides managed services, equipment and communications solutions to large enterprise customers for mobile satellite systems. We incorporate advances in technology to reduce costs and to increase the functionality and reliability of our products and services. Through the usage of advanced spectrally efficient modulation and coding methodologies, proprietary software web acceleration and compression techniques, we continue to improve the efficiency of our networks. We invest in technologies to enhance our system and network management capabilities, specifically our managed services for enterprises. We also continue to invest in next generation technologies that can be applied to our future products and services. Our consumer revenue growth depends on our success in adding new subscribers and driving higher average revenue per subscriber across our wholesale and retail channels. The growth of our enterprise and equipment businesses relies heavily on global economic conditions and the competitive landscape for pricing relative to competitors and alternative technologies. 3 Table of Contents With the launch in December 2016 and expected start of service of the EchoStar XIX satellite late in the first quarter of 2017, we expect to increase our subscribers and grow our consumer, enterprise and government revenue. The addition of new subscribers and the performance of our consumer service offering, primarily drive the revenue growth in our consumer business. Service costs related to ongoing support of our direct and indirect customers and partners are typically impacted most significantly by our growth. Long-term trends continue to be influenced primarily by the subscriber growth in our consumer business. Our Hughes segment currently uses its two owned satellites, the SPACEWAY 3 satellite and the EchoStar XVII satellite, and additional satellite capacity acquired from multiple third-party providers, to provide satellite broadband internet access and communications services to our customers. We currently provide HughesNet Gen4 satellite broadband internet services to our consumer market customers in North America on the EchoStar XVII satellite. In December 2016, we launched our EchoStar XIX satellite, a next-generation, high throughput geostationary satellite, which will provide significant capacity for continued subscriber growth. The EchoStar XIX satellite employs a multi-spot beam, bent pipe Ka-band architecture and will provide additional capacity for the Hughes broadband services to our customers in North America and added capacity in Mexico and certain Latin American countries and is expected to add capability for aeronautical, enterprise and international broadband services. EchoStar contributed the EchoStar XIX satellite to its Hughes segment in February 2017. We continue our efforts to grow our consumer satellite services business outside of the U.S. In April 2014, we entered into a satellite services agreement pursuant to which Eutelsat do Brasil provides us Ka-band capacity into Brazil on the EUTELSAT 65 West A satellite for a 15-year term. That satellite was launched in March 2016 and we began delivering high-speed consumer satellite broadband services in Brazil in July 2016. In September 2015, we entered into satellite services agreements pursuant to which affiliates of Telesat Canada (“Telesat”) will provide to us the Ka-band capacity on a satellite to be located at the 63 degree west longitude orbital location for a 15-year term. We expect the satellite to be launched in the second quarter of 2018 and plan to provide service in additional markets across South America once that capacity is available for commercial use. Our Customers Our Hughes segment delivers broadband satellite technologies and broadband internet services to North American home and small office customers. It also delivers network technologies, managed services, hardware, equipment and satellite communications solutions for domestic and international consumers and enterprise and government customers worldwide. In addition, our Hughes segment provides and installs gateway and terminal equipment and provides satellite ground segment systems and terminals for other satellite systems, including mobile system operators. Examples of our enterprise and government customers include lottery agencies, gas station operators and companies with multi-branch networks that rely on satellite or terrestrial networks for critical communication across wide geographies. Most of our enterprise customers have contracts with us for the services they purchase. Developments toward the launch of next-generation satellite systems including low-earth orbit (“LEO”) and geostationary systems could provide additional opportunities to drive the demand for our network equipment and services. In October 2012, we entered into a distribution agreement (the “Distribution Agreement”) with dishNET Satellite Broadband L.L.C. (“dishNET”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of DISH Network, pursuant to which dishNET has the right, but not the obligation, to market, sell and distribute the Hughes satellite internet service (the “Hughes service”) under the dishNET brand. DISH Network accounted for 7.7% , 7.8% and 8.5% of our total Hughes segment revenue for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. See Note 19 in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this report for further discussion of our related party transactions with DISH Network. As of December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , our Hughes segment had approximately 1,036,000 , 1,035,000 and 977,000 broadband subscribers, respectively. These broadband subscribers include customers that subscribe to our HughesNet broadband services through retail, wholesale and small/medium enterprise service channels. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015 , our Hughes segment had approximately $1.52 billion an d $1.44 billion, respectively, of contracted revenue backlog. We define Hughes contracted revenue backlog as our expected future revenue under customer contracts that are non-cancelable, excluding agreements with customers in our consumer market. Of the total contracted revenue backlog as of December 31, 2016 , we expect to recognize approximately $436.5 million of revenue in 2017 . Our Competition The network communications industry is highly competitive. As a global provider of data network products and services, our Hughes segment competes with a large number of telecommunications service providers. This increasingly competitive 4 Table of Contents environment has put pressure on prices and margins. To compete effectively, we emphasize our network quality, our customization capability, our offering of networks as a turnkey managed service, our position as a single point of contact for products and services and our competitive prices. In our consumer market, we compete against traditional telecommunications and wireless carriers, other satellite internet providers, as well as digital subscriber line (“DSL”) and cable internet service providers offering competitive services in many communities we seek to serve. Cost, speed and accessibility are key determining factors in the selection of a service provider by the consumer. Our primary satellite competitor in our North American consumer market is ViaSat Communications, Inc. (“ViaSat Communications”), which is owned by ViaSat, Inc. (“ViaSat”). We seek to differentiate ourselves based on the ubiquitous availability of our service, quality, proprietary technology, and distribution channels. In our enterprise and government markets, our principal competitors for the supply of very-small-aperture terminal (“VSAT”) satellite networks are Gilat Satellite Networks Ltd, ViaSat, SageNet LLC, Newtec and iDirect Technologies (“iDirect”). To differentiate ourselves from our competitors, we emphasize particular technological features of our products and services, our ability to customize networks and perform desired development work and the quality of our customer service. We also face competition from resellers and numerous local companies who purchase equipment and sell services to local customers, including domestic and international telecommunications operators, cable companies and other major carriers. Manufacturing Certain products in our Hughes segment are assembled at our facilities in Maryland and we outsource a significant portion of the manufacturing of our products to third parties. We believe that the manufacturing facilities used by our Hughes segment have sufficient capacity to handle current demand. We adjust our capacity based on our production requirements. We also work with third-party vendors for the development and manufacture of components that are integrated into our products. We develop dual sourcing capabilities for critical parts when practical and we evaluate outsourced subcontract vendors on a periodic basis. Our operations group, together with our engineering group, works with our vendors and subcontractors to reduce development costs, to increase production efficiency, and to obtain components at lower prices. ECHOSTAR TECHNOLOGIES SEGMENT Our Products and Services Our EchoStar Technologies business segment provides secure end-to-end video and broadcast technology products and services to businesses and directly to consumers. Following consummation of the Share Exchange, we will no longer operate the EchoStar Technologies segment. Video Delivery Products and Related Technologies . Our EchoStar Technologies segment designs, develops and distributes a wide range of video delivery products and related technologies that allow consumers to watch and control their subscription and over-the-air (“OTA”) TV programming from inside their homes. Our current video delivery products and related technologies include: In addition to digital set-top boxes, we design and develop related products such as satellite dishes and remote controls. Video Broadcast Services . Our EchoStar Technologies segment also provides online video delivery and satellite video delivery for broadcasters and pay-TV operators, including satellite uplinking/downlinking, transmission services, signal processing, 5 Table of Contents conditional access management, and other services, primarily to DISH Network and Dish Mexico. We operate a number of digital broadcast centers in the U.S. Our principal digital broadcast centers are located in Cheyenne, Wyoming and Gilbert, Arizona. We also have multiple regional and micro digital broadcast centers that allow us to maximize the use of the spot beam capabilities of our satellites and our customers’ satellites. Programming and other data are received at these centers by fiber optic cable or satellite. The data is processed, compressed, encrypted and then uplinked to our satellites and our customers’ satellites for transmission to end-users. Over-the-Top (“OTT”) Services. We have developed and launched a comprehensive OTT Streaming Video on Demand and live linear service platform solution currently utilized by DISH Network’s Sling TV service, which launched in 2015. We have continued to develop and enhance the platform for Sling TV to improve the customer experience. We also have continued to explore new ways to leverage this technology for other business opportunities. Our Customers The primary customer of our EchoStar Technologies segment is DISH Network. DISH Network accounted for 90.5% , 87.9% and 88.7% of the EchoStar Technologies segment’s revenue for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. See Note 19 in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this report for further discussion of our related party transactions with DISH Network. We also currently sell our digital set-top boxes to other international DTH satellite and cable providers, including Bell TV, a DTH satellite services provider in Canada, and Dish Mexico, to whom we also provide video broadcast services. The number of potential new customers for our set-top box business in our EchoStar Technologies segment is small and may be limited as prospective customers that have been competitors of DISH Network may continue to view us as a competitor due to our common ownership with DISH Network. Our customers face emerging competition from other providers of digital media and potential government action preventing them from using security systems in connection with set-top boxes. In particular, programming offered over the internet has become more prevalent as the speed and quality of broadband networks have improved. Our Competition The video delivery and broadcast and OTT industries are highly competitive. Market leadership changes frequently as a result of new products, designs and pricing, and we face substantial competition. Many of our primary competitors, such as Arris Group, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., and Technicolor S.A., have established longstanding relationships with their customers. In addition, a number of rapidly growing companies have recently entered the market with offerings similar to our existing and contemplated products. The entry of these new competitors may result in increased pricing pressure in the market. In the video delivery industry, we may also face competition from international developers of digital set-top box systems that may be able to develop and manufacture products and services at costs that are substantially lower than our costs. Furthermore, we depend heavily on our ability to successfully bring advanced technologies to the market, including internet delivery of video content and our Slingbox unit’s placeshifting functionality. We believe our use of proprietary technology, together with our in-house engineering expertise, enables us to innovate and bring new features and enhancements quickly to our customers. In addition, our end-to-end video solutions may allow us to provide a more cost-effective solution for a pay-TV operator who may have to negotiate hardware, middleware and a conditional access system separately. We have a long-standing relationship with DISH Network and provide them with technologically advanced set-top boxes, including advanced hybrid satellite and internet protocol over-the-top delivery solutions, Slingbox unit’s placeshifting functionality, and whole-home DVR features. Our Manufacturers Although we design, engineer and distribute digital set-top boxes and other products, we are not directly engaged in the manufacturing process. Rather, we outsource the manufacturing of our products to third parties who manufacture our products according to specifications supplied by us. We depend on a few manufacturers, and in some cases a single manufacturer, for the production of digital set-top boxes and related products. Although there can be no assurance, we do not believe that the loss of any single manufacturer would materially impact our business. Sanmina-SCI Corporation, Shanghai DD&TT Electronic Enterprise Co., LTD and Jabil Circuit, Inc. currently manufacture the majority of our digital set-top boxes and accessories. 6 Table of Contents ECHOSTAR SATELLITE SERVICES SEGMENT Our Services Our ESS segment is a global provider of satellite service operations and video delivery solutions. We operate our business using our owned and leased in-orbit satellites. We provide satellite services on a full-time and occasional-use basis primarily to DISH Network (our largest customer), Dish Mexico, U.S. government service providers, internet service providers, broadcast news organizations, programmers and private enterprise customers. We also manage satellite operations for several satellites owned by third parties. Our satellite capacity is currently used by our customers for a variety of applications: Our Customers We provide satellite capacity on our satellite fleet primarily to DISH Network, Dish Mexico, U.S. government service providers, internet service providers, broadcast news organizations, programmers and private enterprise customers. For the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , DISH Network accounted for approximately 85.7% , 86.3% and 84.1% of our total ESS segment revenue. We have entered into certain commercial agreements with DISH Network pursuant to which we are obligated to provide DISH Network with satellite services at fixed prices for varying lengths of time depending on the satellite. See Note 19 in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this report for further discussion of our related party transactions with DISH Network. DISH Network’s capacity requirements have been driven by the addition of new channels and migration of programming to high-definition TV and video on demand services. The services that we provide to DISH Network are critical to its nationwide delivery of content to its customers across the U.S. While we expect to continue to provide satellite services to DISH Network, its satellite capacity requirements may change for a variety of reasons, including its ability to construct and launch its own satellites. Any termination or reduction in the services we provide to DISH Network may cause us to have unused capacity on our satellites and require that we aggressively pursue alternative sources of revenue for this business. We currently have available satellite capacity. Our other satellite service sales generally are characterized by shorter-term contracts or spot market sales. Revenue growth in our ESS segment depends largely on our ability to continuously make additional satellite capacity available for sale. We continue to pursue expanding our business offerings by providing value added services such as telemetry, tracking and control services to third parties, which leverages the ground monitoring networks and personnel currently within our ESS segment. The agreements with DISH Network for the EchoStar I and EchoStar VIII satellites expired pursuant to their terms effective November 2015. In addition, our agreement with SES Americom Colorado, Inc. (“SES”) for satellite services on the AMC-16 satellite terminated according to its terms in February 2016. The loss of capacity and/or service provided on these three satellites has, and is expected to continue to, adversely impact our revenue, results of operations and cash flow. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015 , our ESS segment had contracted revenue backlog attributable to satellites currently in orbit of approximately $1.16 billion and $1.41 billion, respectively. Of the total contracted revenue backlog as of December 31, 2016 , we expect to recognize approximately $365.1 million of revenue in 2017 . 7 Table of Contents Our Competition In the fixed satellite services market, our ESS segment competes against larger, well-established satellite service companies, such as Intelsat S.A. (“Intelsat”), SES S.A., Telesat, and Eutelsat Communications S.A. (“Eutelsat”), in an industry that is characterized by long-term contracts and high costs for customers to change service providers. Therefore, it is difficult to displace customers from their current relationships with our competitors. Intelsat, SES S.A. and other competitors maintain key North American and other international orbital slots that may further limit competition and competitive pricing. While we believe that there may be opportunities to capture new business as a result of market trends such as the increased communications demands of homeland security initiatives, there can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively compete against our competitors due to their significant resources and operating history. OTHER BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES Our industry is evolving with the increase in worldwide demand for broadband internet access for information, entertainment and commerce. In addition to fiber and wireless systems, other technologies such as geostationary high throughput satellites, low-earth orbit (“LEO”) networks, balloons, and High Altitude Platform Systems have begun to play significant roles in enabling global broadband access, networks and services. We intend to use our expertise, technologies, capital, investments, global presence, relationships and other capabilities to continue to provide broadband internet systems, equipment, networks and services for information, entertainment and commerce in North America and internationally for consumers, enterprises and governments. We continue to selectively explore opportunities to pursue partnerships, joint ventures and strategic acquisitions, domestically and internationally, that we believe may allow us to increase our existing market share, expand into new markets and new customers, broaden our portfolio of services, products and intellectual property, and strengthen our relationships with our customers. We may allocate significant resources for long-term initiatives that may not have a short or medium-term or any positive impact on our revenue, results of operations, or cash flow. In 2012, we acquired the right to use various frequencies at the 45 degree west longitude orbital location (“Brazilian Authorization”) from ANATEL, the Brazilian communications regulatory agency. The Brazilian Authorization provides us the rights to utilize Ku-band spectrum, Ka-band spectrum and S-band spectrum. We are exploring options for the Ka-band and S-band spectrums. In April 2014, we entered into an agreement with Space Systems Loral, LLC (“SS/L”) for the construction of the EchoStar XXIII satellite, a high powered broadcast satellite service (“BSS”) satellite. The EchoStar XXIII satellite will be deployed at the 45 degree west longitude orbital location. Due to anomalies experienced by our launch provider, the expected launch date of our EchoStar XXIII satellite was delayed and we currently expect to launch the EchoStar XXIII satellite in the first quarter of 2017. We have regulatory obligations to meet certain in-service milestones by the second quarter of 2017 for our Brazilian license at 45 west longitude for the Ka-, Ku- and S-band frequency bands. We currently expect to meet our regulatory milestone for the Ku-band. We have sought an extension of the S- and Ka-band milestones, which may or may not be granted, and, if granted, may be subject to penalties, additional conditions or other requirements. In December 2013, we acquired 100% of Solaris Mobile, which is based in Dublin, Ireland and licensed by the European Union and its member states (“EU”) to provide MSS and CGC services covering the entire EU using S-band spectrum. Solaris Mobile changed its name to EchoStar Mobile Limited (“EchoStar Mobile”) in the first quarter of 2015. We are in the process of developing commercial services utilizing the operable payload we own on the EUTELSAT 10A satellite, along with our EchoStar XXI S-band satellite. The EchoStar XXI satellite will provide space segment capacity to EchoStar Mobile. We believe we are in a unique position to deploy a European wide MSS/CGC network and maximize the long-term value of our S-band spectrum in Europe and other regions within the scope of our licenses. Due to anomalies experienced by our launch provider, the expected launch of our EchoStar XXI satellite was delayed and we currently expect to launch the EchoStar XXI satellite in the second or third quarter of 2017. We had regulatory obligations to meet certain milestones by the fourth quarter of 2016 regarding the operations of the EchoStar XXI satellite across the EU. We have notified the regulators in the EU of our delay and we intend to seek extensions of certain of these requirements to the extent we determine necessary. Although we anticipate being able to receive them, any such necessary extensions may be subject to additional conditions, penalties or other requirements. We are tracking closely the developments in next-generation satellite businesses, and we are seeking to utilize our services, technologies and expertise to find new commercial opportunities for our business. In June 2015, we made an equity investment in WorldVu Satellites Limited (“OneWeb”), a global LEO satellite service company. In addition, our Hughes segment entered into an agreement with OneWeb to provide certain equipment and services in connection with the ground systems for OneWeb’s LEO satellites. 8 Table of Contents Capital expenditures associated with the construction and launch of the EchoStar XXIII and EchoStar XXI satellites are included in “All Other and Eliminations” in our segment reporting. OUR SATELLITE FLEET Our operating satellite fleet consists of both owned and leased satellites detailed in the table below as of December 31, 2016 . Construction in progress included the following owned and leased satellites under construction or undergoing in-orbit testing as of December 31, 2016 . (1) This satellite was launched in December 2016 and is expected to be placed into service late in the first quarter of 2017. (2) We entered into a satellite services agreement for certain capacity on this satellite once launched, but are not party to the construction contract. (3) EchoStar contributed the EchoStar XIX satellite to its Hughes segment in February 2017. 9 Table of Contents Recent Developments EchoStar XIX . The EchoStar XIX satellite was launched in December 2016 and we expect the satellite to be placed into service late in the first quarter of 2017. We expect the EchoStar XIX satellite to provide additional capacity for the Hughes broadband services to our customers in North America and added capacity in Mexico and certain Latin American countries and to add capability for aeronautical, enterprise and international broadband services. EchoStar contributed the EchoStar XIX satellite to its Hughes segment in February 2017. Eutelsat 65 West A. The Eutelsat 65 West A satellite was launched in March 2016 and our Hughes segment began to offer consumer broadband services in Brazil using our leased Ka-band payload on the satellite in July 2016. EchoStar XXI and EchoStar XXIII. Due to anomalies experienced by our launch providers, the launch dates of our EchoStar XXI and EchoStar XXIII satellites were delayed with expected launch dates in the second or third quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2017, respectively. We are in the process of evaluating the implications of these delays, including, without limitation, potential increased costs, regulatory and contractual milestone compliance and other satellite resource allocations. We had regulatory obligations to meet certain milestones by the fourth quarter of 2016 regarding the operations of the EchoStar XXI satellite across the European Union. We have notified the regulators in the EU of our delay and we intend to seek extensions of certain of these requirements to the extent we determine necessary. Although we anticipate being able to receive them, any such necessary extensions may be subject to additional conditions, penalties or other requirements. We also have regulatory obligations to meet certain in-service milestones by the second quarter of 2017 for our Brazilian license at 45 degree west longitude for the Ka-, Ku- and S-band frequency bands. We currently expect to meet our regulatory milestone for the Ku-band. We have sought an extension of the S- and Ka-band milestones, which may or may not be granted, and, if granted, may be subject to penalties, additional conditions or other requirements. EchoStar 105/SES-11. Due to anomalies experienced by our launch provider, the expected launch date of our EchoStar 105/SES-11 satellite has been delayed until the second quarter of 2017. Our Ku-band payload on the EchoStar 105/SES-11 satellite will replace our current capacity on the AMC-15 satellite. AMC-15 and AMC-16. In August 2014, in connection with the execution of agreements related to the EchoStar 105/SES-11 satellite, we entered into amendments that extend the terms of our existing agreements with SES Americom Colorado, Inc. (“SES”) for satellite services on the AMC-15 and AMC-16 satellites. As amended, the term of our agreement for satellite services on certain transponders on the AMC-15 satellite was extended from December 2014 through a certain period following the in-service date of the EchoStar 105/SES-11 satellite and is being accounted for as an operating lease. The amended agreement for the AMC-16 satellite services extended the term for the satellite’s entire communications capacity, subject to available power, for one year following expiration of the initial term in February 2015 and the agreement terminated according to its terms in February 2016. Satellite Anomalies and Impairments Our satellites may experience anomalies from time to time, some of which may have a significant adverse impact on their remaining useful lives, the commercial operation of the satellites or our operating results. We are not aware of any anomalies with respect to our owned or leased satellites that have had any such material adverse effect during the year ended December 31, 2016 . There can be no assurance, however, that anomalies will not have any such adverse impacts in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that we can recover critical transmission capacity in the event one or more of our in-orbit satellites were to fail. We historically have not carried in-orbit insurance on our satellites because we assessed that the cost of insurance was uneconomical relative to the risk of failures. Therefore, we generally bear the risk of any in-orbit failures. Pursuant to the terms of the agreements governing certain portions of our indebtedness, we are required, subject to certain limitations on coverage, to maintain in-orbit insurance for our SPACEWAY 3, EchoStar XVI, and EchoStar XVII satellites. Based on economic analysis of the current insurance market we have elected to obtain, subject to certain limitations on coverage, launch and in-orbit insurance for our EchoStar XIX, EchoStar XXI and EchoStar XXIII satellites and our interest in the EchoStar 105/SES-11 satellite. All other satellites, either in orbit or under construction, are not covered by launch or in-orbit insurance. We will continue to assess circumstances going forward and make insurance decisions on a case by case basis. We evaluate our satellites for impairment and test for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. Certain of the anomalies previously disclosed, may be considered to represent a significant adverse change in the physical condition of a particular satellite. However, based on the redundancy designed 10 Table of Contents within each satellite, certain of these anomalies are not necessarily considered to be significant events that would require a test of recoverability. GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS We are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FCC for our domestic, as well as some international, satellite and telecommunications operations and equipment businesses. We are also regulated by other U.S. federal agencies, state and local authorities, the International Telecommunication Union (“ITU”), and certain foreign governments, including the EU. In addition, we are also subject to the export control laws and regulations and trade sanctions laws and regulations of the U.S. and other countries with respect to the export of telecommunications equipment and services. Depending upon the circumstances, noncompliance with applicable legislation or regulations could result in suspension or revocation of our licenses or authorizations, the termination or loss of contracts or the imposition of contractual damages, civil fines or criminal penalties. The following summary of regulations and legislation is not intended to describe all present and proposed government regulation and legislation affecting our business. Government regulations that are currently the subject of judicial or administrative proceedings, draft legislation or administrative proposals could impact us and our industries to varying degrees. The FCC and other regulators from time to time initiate proceedings that could adversely impact our satellite operations, including spectrum usage. We cannot predict either the outcome of these proceedings or proposals or any potential impact they might have on the industry or on our operations. Under its Spectrum Frontiers proceeding, the FCC enabled the use of one of the frequency bands we utilize, the Ka-band, on a shared basis with 5G services, which could limit our flexibility to change the way we use the Ka-band in the future. The FCC has also opened a proceeding on non-geostationary satellites, which may adversely impact our ability to use certain spectrum for user terminals. FCC Regulations Applicable to Our Operations FCC Jurisdiction over Satellite and Terrestrial Operations . Non-governmental, including commercial entities, that use radio frequencies to provide communications services to, from or within the U.S. are subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”). The Communications Act gives the FCC regulatory jurisdiction over many areas relating to communications operations, including: All satellite licenses issued by the FCC are subject to expiration unless extended by the FCC. The term of each of our U.S. direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) licenses is 10 years, and our U.S. fixed satellite services (“FSS”) licenses generally have 15 year terms. We hold licenses and authorizations for satellite and earth stations as well as other services, including terrestrial wireless services. To obtain and operate under such FCC licenses and authorizations, we must satisfy legal, technical qualification requirements and other conditions including, among other things, satisfaction of certain technical and ongoing due diligence obligations, implementation bonds, annual regulatory fees and various reporting requirements. A license must be obtained prior to launching or operating a satellite. FCC Jurisdiction over Set-Top Box Operations . Our digital set-top boxes and similar devices must also comply with FCC technical standards and requirements, including accessibility and other requirements. The FCC has specific Part 15 regulations for television broadcast receivers and television interface devices. We anticipate that we will no longer be subject to these regulations following the consummation of the Share Exchange. Telecommunications Regulation. Many of the services we provide are also subject to FCC regulation as telecommunications services. For certain services in the U.S., we are required to contribute fees, computed as a percentage of our revenue from telecommunications services to the Universal Service Fund (“USF”) to support mechanisms that subsidize the provision of services to low-income consumers, high-cost areas, schools, libraries, and rural health care providers. Current FCC rules permit us to pass this USF contribution through to our customers. The FCC also requires broadband internet access and internet telephony service providers to comply with the requirements of the Federal Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”). CA 11 Table of Contents LEA generally requires telecommunications carriers to ensure that law enforcement agencies are able to conduct lawfully-authorized surveillance of users of their services. In addition, as a provider of interconnected voice over internet protocol services (“VOIP”), we are required to abide by a number of rules related to telephony service, including rules dealing with the protection of customer information and the processing of emergency calls. State and Local Regulation We are also regulated by state and local authorities. While the FCC has preempted many state and local regulations that would impair the installation and use of VSATs and other consumer satellite dishes, our businesses nonetheless are subject to state and local regulation, including, among others, obtaining regulatory authorizations and zoning regulations that affect the ability to install these consumer satellite earth station antennas. International Regulation Foreign Administrations’ Jurisdiction Over Satellite and Terrestrial Operations . Some of our satellites and earth stations are licensed in foreign jurisdictions. We also have terrestrial authorizations in foreign jurisdictions. In order to provide service to a foreign location from a U.S. satellite, we are required to obtain approvals from the FCC and foreign administrative agencies. The laws and regulations addressing access to satellite and terrestrial systems vary from country to country. In most countries, a license is required to provide our services and to operate satellite earth stations. Such licenses may impose certain conditions, including implementation and operation of the satellite system in a manner consistent with certain milestones (such as for contracting, satellite design, construction, launch, and implementation of service), that the satellite or its launch be procured through a national entity, that the satellite control center be located in national territory, that a license be obtained prior to launching or operating the satellite, or that a license be obtained before interconnecting with the local switched telephone network. Some countries may have restrictions on the services we provide and how we provide them. In addition, certain countries may limit the rates that can be charged for the services we provide or impose other service terms or restrictions. The ITU Frequency and Orbital Location Registration. The orbital location and frequencies for our satellites are subject to the frequency registration and coordination process of the ITU. The ITU Radio Regulations define the international rules, regulations, and rights for a satellite and associated earth stations to use specific radio frequencies at a specific orbital location. These rules, which include deadlines for the bringing of satellite networks into use, differ depending on the type of service to be provided and the frequencies to be used by the satellite. On our behalf, various countries have made, and may in the future make, additional filings for the frequency assignments at particular orbital locations that are used or to be used by our current satellite networks and potential future satellite networks we may build or acquire. In the event the international coordination process that is triggered by ITU filings under applicable rules is not successfully completed, or that the requests for modification of the BSS plan regarding the allocation of orbital locations and frequencies are not granted by the ITU, we will have to operate the applicable satellite(s) on a non-interference basis, which could have an adverse impact on our business operations. If we cannot do so, we may have to cease operating such satellite(s) at the affected orbital locations. We cannot be sure of the successful outcome of these ITU coordination processes. We make commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate with the filing nation in the preparation of ITU filings, coordination of our operations in accordance with the relevant ITU Radio Regulations, and responses to relevant ITU inquiries. Registration in the UN Registry of Space Objects. The U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we license satellites are generally parties to the United Nations (“UN”) Convention on the Registration of Objects Launched into Outer Space (“UN Convention”). The UN Convention requires a satellite’s launching state to register the satellite as a space object. The act of registration carries liability for the registering country in the event that the satellite causes third party damage. Administrations may place certain requirements on satellite licensees in order to procure the necessary launch or operational authorizations that accompany registration of the satellite. In some jurisdictions, these authorizations are separate and distinct, with unique requirements, from the authorization to use a set of frequencies to provide satellite services. Telecommunications Regulation. Many of the services we provide are also are subject the regulation of other countries as telecommunications services. For certain services, we may be required to contribute fees to a universal service or other fund to support mechanisms that subsidize the provision of services to designated groups. Many countries also impose requirements on telecommunications carriers to ensure that law enforcement agencies are able to conduct lawfully-authorized surveillance of users of their services. In addition, we are subject to a number of other rules, including rules related to telephony service such as the protection of customer information and processing of emergency calls. 12 Table of Contents Export Control Regulation In the operation of our business, we must comply with all applicable export control and trade sanctions laws and regulations of the U.S. and other countries. Applicable U.S. laws and regulations include the Arms Export Control Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”), the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”), and the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The export of certain hardware, technical data, and services relating to satellites and the supply of certain ground control equipment, technical data and services to non-U.S. persons or to destinations outside the U.S. is regulated by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) under the EAR. In addition, BIS regulates our export of satellite communications network equipment to non-U.S. persons or to destinations outside of the U.S. The export of other items is regulated by the U.S. Department of State’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls (“DDTC”) under the ITAR and are subject to strict export control and prior approval requirements. In addition, we cannot provide certain equipment or services to certain countries subject to U.S. trade sanctions unless we first obtain the necessary authorizations from OFAC. We are also subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar foreign regulations, which generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or giving or promising to give anything of value to foreign government officials and other individuals for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining a competitive advantage. Environmental Regulation We are subject to the requirements of federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations. These include laws regulating air emissions, waste-water discharge and waste management, most significantly the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (“EPCRA”). Under the RCRA, our Hughes segment is considered a small quantity generator. As required by the EPCRA, we file annual reports with regulatory agencies covering four areas: Emergency Planning, Emergency Release, Hazardous Chemical Storage, and Toxic Chemical Release Inventory. We maintain small quantities of hazardous materials on our premises and, therefore, have relatively modest reporting requirements under the EPCRA. We are also subject to the requirements of other environmental and occupational safety and health laws and regulations. Additionally, we review SARA Title III regulatory requirements and annually report quantities of onsite material storage using Tier II, state DEQ (Department of Environmental Quality) reporting systems. Our environmental compliance costs to date have not been material, and we currently have no reason to believe that such costs will become material in the foreseeable future. We do not expect capital or other expenditures for environmental compliance to be material in 2017 . However, environmental requirements are complex, change frequently, and have become more stringent over time. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that these requirements will not change or become more stringent in the future in a manner that could have a material adverse effect on our business. PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS We currently rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark law, together with licenses, non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements and technical measures, to establish and protect proprietary rights in our products. We hold U.S. and foreign patents covering various aspects of our products and services. The duration of each of our U.S. patents is generally 20 years from the earliest filing date to which the patent has priority. We have granted licenses to use our trademarks and service-marks to affiliates and resellers worldwide, and we typically retain the right to monitor the use of those marks and impose significant restrictions on their use in efforts to ensure a consistent brand identity. We protect our proprietary rights in our software through software licenses that, among other things, require that the software source code be maintained as confidential information and that prohibit any reverse-engineering of that code. We believe that our patents are important to our business. We also believe that, in some areas, the improvement of existing products and the development of new products, as well as reliance upon trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how, are important in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. We believe, to a certain extent, that the value of our products and services are dependent upon our proprietary software, hardware, and other technology remaining trade secrets and/or subject to copyright protection. Generally, we enter into non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements with our employees, subcontractors, and certain customers and other business partners. Please see Item 3. — Legal Proceedings of this report for more information. 13 Table of Contents RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING We have a skilled and multi-disciplined engineering organization that develops our products and services. Our in-house technological capability includes a wide range of skills required to develop systems, hardware, software, and firmware used in our products and services. In addition, we have pioneered numerous advances in the area of wireless communication systems, techniques and methodologies, television broadcasting, video placeshifting, video copy protection, and digital video recording. With respect to hardware development, we have skill sets that include complex digital designs, radio frequency and intermediate frequency analog designs, advanced application-specific integrated circuit designs, and sophisticated consumer and system level packaging designs. We also have extensive experience in developing products for high-volume, low-cost manufacturing for the consumer industry, including satellite TV set-top receivers and dual mode satellite and wireless handsets. As a complement to our hardware development, we have extensive experience in designing reliable, real time, embedded software systems as part of our communication systems and services offerings. For example, our broadband product line for the enterprise market supports an extensive range of protocols for data communications. Our engineers have also developed many large turnkey systems for our customers by designing the overall solution, implementing the various subsystems, deploying the entire network and user terminals, integrating and verifying the operational system, and ultimately training the customers’ technicians and operators. Costs incurred in research and development activities generally are expensed as incurred. A significant portion of our research and development costs are incurred in connection with the specific requirements of a customer’s order. In such instances, the amounts for these customer funded development efforts are included in cost of sales. Cost of sales includes research and development costs incurred in connection with customer’s orders of approximately $67.8 million , $59.2 million and $68.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. In addition, we incurred other research and development expenses of approximately $76.0 million , $78.3 million and $60.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. GEOGRAPHIC AREA DATA AND TRANSACTIONS WITH MAJOR CUSTOMERS For principal geographic area data and transactions with major customers for 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , see Note 17 in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this report . See Item 1A. — Risk Factors for information regarding risks related to our foreign operations. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2016 , we had approximately 4,000 employees and generally consider relations with them to be good. Other than approximately 170 of our employees located in Italy and Brazil, none are represented by a union. Approximately 1,800 of our employees are expected to transfer to DISH Network upon consummation of the Share Exchange. WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and accordingly file an annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. As an electronic filer, our public filings are also maintained on the SEC’s internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov. WEBSITE ACCESS Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, may also be accessed free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC. The address of that website is http://www.echostar.com. We have adopted a written code of ethics that applies to all of our directors, officers, and employees, including our principal executive officer and senior financial officers, in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules of the SEC promulgated thereunder. Our code of ethics is available on our corporate website at http://www.echostar.com. In the event that 14 Table of Contents we make changes in, or provide waivers of, the provisions of this code of ethics that the SEC requires us to disclose, we intend to disclose these events on our website. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT (furnished in accordance with Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K) The following table and information below sets forth the name, age and position with EchoStar of each of our executive officers, the period during which each executive officer has served as such, and each executive officer’s business experience during at least the past five years: Charles W. Ergen. Mr. Ergen has served as our executive Chairman since November 2009 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since our formation in 2007. Mr. Ergen served as our Chief Executive Officer from our formation in 2007 until November 2009. Mr. Ergen serves as executive Chairman and has been Chairman of the Board of Directors of DISH Network since its formation and, during the past five years, has held executive officer and director positions with DISH Network and its subsidiaries. He has been serving as the Chief Executive Officer of DISH Network since March 2015. Michael T. Dugan . Mr. Dugan has served as our Chief Executive Officer and President since November 2009. Mr. Dugan has also served as a member of our Board of Directors since our formation in 2007. Mr. Dugan served as a senior advisor to EchoStar from January 1, 2008 until November 2009. From May 2004 to December 2007, he was a director of DISH Network, and from 1990 to 2004 served in several executive roles at DISH Network, including as President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Technical Officer and senior advisor from time to time. David J. Rayner . Mr. Rayner has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer since December 2012. In September 2016, Mr. Rayner also was appointed as our Chief Operating Officer. From November 2011 to November 2012, Mr. Rayner served as Chief Financial Officer of Tendril Networks, Inc., a Boulder, Colorado software company. Mr. Rayner served as our Chief Financial Officer from June 2010 to November 2011 and served as our Chief Administrative Officer from January 2008 to June 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Rayner served as Executive Vice President of Installation and Service Networks of DISH Network and previously as Chief Financial Officer of DISH Network. Before joining DISH Network in December 2004, Mr. Rayner served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Time Warner Telecom in Denver, beginning in June 1998. Anders N. Johnson . Mr. Johnson has served as President of EchoStar Satellite Services L.L.C. since June 2011. In September 2016, Mr. Johnson also was appointed as our Chief Strategy Officer. Before joining EchoStar, Mr. Johnson was most recently at SES World Skies where he served as Senior Vice President of Strategic Satellite Development. Mr. Johnson joined SES GLOBAL after the combination of GE Americom and SES GLOBAL in 2001. Prior to SES GLOBAL, Mr. Johnson worked at GE Capital beginning in 1985 in a variety of executive level roles in Satellite Services, Aviation Services, and Transportation & Industrial Financing. Pradman P. Kaul . Mr. Kaul has served as President of Hughes Communications, Inc. (“Hughes Communications”) since its formation in February 2006, and as President of Hughes Network Systems, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hughes Communications (“HNS” and, together with Hughes Communications, “Hughes”) since 2000. Mr. Kaul has also served as a member of our Board of Directors since August 2011 as well as a member of the board of directors of Hughes Communications from February 2006 until June 2011. Previously, Mr. Kaul served as the Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President and Director of Engineering of HNS. 15 Table of Contents Vivek Khemka . Mr. Khemka has been serving as President of EchoStar Technologies L.L.C. pursuant to a Professional Services Agreement between EchoStar and DISH Network and oversees all day to day operations of our EchoStar Technologies segment. Mr. Khemka, who is employed by DISH Network, has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of DISH Network since December 2015. Mr. Khemka previously served as Senior Vice President of Product Management of DISH Network from March 2013 to December 2015 and as Vice President of Customer Technology of DISH Network from December 2011 to March 2013. Before joining DISH Network in 2009, Mr. Khemka held various positions at Danaher, Motorola and McKinsey & Co. Following consummation of the Share Exchange, Mr. Khemka will no longer serve as an executive officer of EchoStar. Kranti K. Kilaru . Mr. Kilaru has served as our Executive Vice President, Business Systems since July 2013. Mr. Kilaru served as Senior Vice President of our systems engineering group from April 2005 to July 2013. Mr. Kilaru joined EchoStar Technologies L.L.C. in 1989. Dean A. Manson . Mr. Manson has served as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since November 2011. Mr. Manson also serves as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Hughes Communications. Mr. Manson joined Hughes in 2000 from the law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, where he focused on international project finance and corporate transactions, and was appointed General Counsel of Hughes in 2004. There are no arrangements or understandings between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which any executive officer was selected as such. Pursuant to the Bylaws of EchoStar, executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. 16 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, results of operation, prospects or ability to fund a share repurchase program, invest capital in our business or return capital to our shareholders could be materially and adversely affected. GENERAL RISKS AFFECTING OUR BUSINESS We currently derive a significant portion of our revenue from our primary customer, DISH Network. If the Share Exchange is not consummated, the loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from, or a decrease in selling prices of digital set-top boxes, broadband equipment and services, provision of satellite services and digital broadcast services, and/or other products, components or services to DISH Network would significantly reduce our revenue and materially adversely impact our results of operations. DISH Network accounted for 52.3% , 53.5% and 57.3% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. DISH Network is currently our primary customer of digital set-top boxes, digital broadcast operation services and our satellite services. DISH Network is also a wholesale distributor of the Hughes satellite internet service, and in connection with such wholesale distribution, purchases certain broadband equipment from us to support the sale of the Hughes service. In addition, DISH Network has no obligations to continue to purchase our products and only certain obligations to continue to purchase certain of our services. Therefore, our relationship with DISH Network could be terminated or substantially curtailed with little or no advance notice. Any material reduction in or termination of our sales to DISH Network or reduction in the prices it pays for the products and services it purchases from us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. DISH Network is involved in several legal proceedings relating to products, components and services purchased from us. Adverse decisions against DISH Network in these proceedings could decrease the number of products, components and/or services we provide to DISH Network, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. In addition, because a significant portion of our revenue is derived from DISH Network, our success also depends to a significant degree on the continued success of DISH Network in attracting new subscribers and marketing programming packages and other services and features to subscribers that will result in the purchase of new digital set-top boxes, and in particular, new digital set-top boxes at the high-end of our product range that incorporate high-definition, multiple tuners, and other advanced technology. In addition, the timing of orders for digital set-top boxes from DISH Network could vary significantly depending on equipment promotions offered to its subscribers, changes in technology, and its use of remanufactured digital set-top boxes, which may cause our revenue to vary significantly quarter over quarter and could expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. These inventory risks are particularly acute during product end-of-life transitions in which a new generation of digital set-top boxes is being deployed and inventory of older generation digital set-top boxes is at a higher risk of obsolescence. This in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. There are a relatively small number of potential new customers for our digital set-top boxes and digital broadcast operations, and we expect this customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. If we lose DISH Network as a customer, it may be difficult for us to replace, in whole or in part, our historical revenue from DISH Network as we have had limited success in attracting such potential new customers in the past . Furthermore, because of the maturing and competitive nature of the digital set-top box business, the limited number of potential new customers, and the short-term nature of our purchase orders with DISH Network, we have experienced, and could in the future continue to experience, downward pricing pressure on our digital set-top boxes sold to DISH Network, which in turn would adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. Historically, many potential customers have perceived us as a competitor due to our affiliation with DISH Network. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into any commercial relationships with potential new customers who are competitors of DISH Network (particularly if we continue to be perceived as affiliated with DISH Network as a result of common ownership and certain shared services). If we do not develop relationships with new customers, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenue. 17 Table of Contents Our strategic initiatives may not be successfully implemented, may not elicit the expected customer response in the market and may result in competitive reactions. We have identified a number of strategic initiatives that we intend to pursue which are discussed in more detail in Item 1. — Business of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The successful implementation of those strategic initiatives requires an investment of time, talent and money and is dependent upon a number of factors some of which are not within our control. Those factors include the ability to execute such initiatives in the market, the response of existing and potential new customers, and the actions or reactions of competitors. We may allocate significant resources for long-term initiatives that may not have a short or medium term or any positive impact on our revenue, results of operations, or cash flow. If we fail to properly execute or deliver products or services that address customers’ expectations, it may have an adverse effect on our ability to retain and attract customers and may increase our costs and reduce our revenue. Similarly, competitive actions or reactions to our initiatives or advancements in technology or competitive products or services could impair our ability to execute those strategic initiatives or advancements. In addition, new strategic initiatives may face barriers to entering existing markets with established competitors. There can be no assurance that we will successfully implement these strategic initiatives or that, if successfully pursued, they will have the desired effect on our business or results of operations. We could face decreased demand and increased pricing pressure to our products and services due to competition. Our business operates in an intensely competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment and competes with a growing number of companies that provide products and services to consumers. Risks to our business from competition include, but are not limited to, the following: 18 Table of Contents The average selling price and gross margins of our digital set-top boxes have been decreasing and may decrease even further, which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. The average selling price and gross margins of our digital set-top boxes have been decreasing and may decrease even further if the Share Exchange is not consummated due to, among other things, an increase in the sales of lower-priced digital set-top boxes to DISH Network, increased competitive pricing pressure and production costs. Furthermore, our ability to increase the average selling prices of our digital set-top boxes is limited and our average selling price may decrease even further in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors, lack of demand for our new product introductions or other factors. If we are unable to increase or at least maintain the average selling prices of our digital set-top boxes, or if such selling prices further decline, and we are unable to respond in a timely manner by developing and introducing new products and continually reducing our product costs, our revenue and gross margin may be negatively affected, which will harm our financial position and results of operations if the Share Exchange is not consummated. If significant numbers of television viewers are unwilling to pay for pay-TV services that utilize digital set-top boxes, we may not be able to sustain our current revenue level if the Share Exchange is not consummated. We are substantially dependent upon the ability of our customers to promote the delivery of pay-TV services, including, among others, premium programming packages and services that utilize technology incorporated into our digital set-top boxes, such as HD technology and IPTV, to generate future revenue. Our customers face emerging competition from other providers of digital media and potential government action preventing them from using security systems in connection with set-top boxes. In particular, programming offered over the internet has become more prevalent as the speed and quality of broadband networks have improved. Our customers may be unsuccessful in promoting value-added services or may promote alternative packages, such as free programming packages, in lieu of promoting packages that utilize our high-end digital set-top box offerings. If our customers are unable to develop and effectively market compelling reasons for their subscribers to continue to purchase their pay-TV services that utilize our more advanced digital set-top boxes, it will be difficult for us to sustain our historical revenue. Furthermore, as technologies develop, other means of delivering information and entertainment to television viewers have evolved and contributed to, and will likely continue to evolve and contribute to, increasing consumer demand for online platforms that provide for the distribution and viewing of movies, television and other video programming that competes with our customers’ pay-TV services. To the extent that these online platforms and other new technologies compete successfully against our customers for viewers, the ability of our existing customer base to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. As a result, demand for our satellite television digital set-top boxes could decline, and we may not be able to sustain our current revenue levels. We may have available satellite capacity in our ESS segment, and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected if we are not able to provide satellite services on this capacity to third parties, including DISH Network. We have available satellite capacity in our ESS segment. While we are currently evaluating various opportunities to make profitable use of our available satellite capacity (including, but not limited to, supplying satellite capacity for new international ventures), there can be no assurance that we can successfully develop these business opportunities. If we are unable to utilize our available satellite capacity for providing satellite services to third parties, including DISH Network, our margins could be negatively impacted, and we may be required to record impairments related to our satellites. 19 Table of Contents The failure to adequately anticipate the need for satellite capacity or the inability to obtain satellite capacity for our Hughes segment could harm our results of operations. Our Hughes segment has made substantial contractual commitments for satellite capacity based on our existing customer contracts and backlog. If our existing customer contracts were to be terminated prior to their respective expiration dates, we may be committed to maintaining excess satellite capacity for which we will have insufficient revenue to cover our costs, which would have a negative impact on our margins and results of operations. Alternatively, we may not have sufficient satellite capacity to meet demand. We have satellite capacity commitments, generally for two to five year terms, with third parties to cover different geographical areas or support different applications and features; therefore, we may not be able to quickly or easily adjust our capacity to changes in demand. We generally only purchase satellite capacity based on existing contracts and bookings. Therefore, capacity for certain types of coverage in the future may not be readily available to us, and we may not be able to satisfy certain needs of our customers, which could result in a loss of possible new business and could negatively impact the margins for those services. At present, until the launch and operation of additional satellites, there is limited availability of capacity on the frequencies we use in North America, including within our own fleet of satellites. Our ability to provide additional capacity for subscriber growth in our North American consumer market could also be adversely affected by regulations in the U.S. recently adopted by the FCC that enable the use of a portion of the frequency bands, including without limitation, the Ka-band, where we operate our broadband gateway earth stations, for 5G mobile terrestrial services, which could limit our flexibility to change the way in which we use the Ka-band in the future. In addition, the FSS industry has seen consolidation in the past decade, and today, the main FSS providers in North America and a number of smaller regional providers own and operate the current satellites that are available for our capacity needs. The failure of any of these FSS providers to replace existing satellite assets at the end of their useful lives or a downturn in their industry as a whole could reduce or interrupt the satellite capacity available to us. If we are not able to renew our capacity leases at economically viable rates, or if capacity is not available due to problems experienced by these FSS providers, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are dependent upon third-party providers for components, manufacturing, installation services, and customer support services, and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected if any of these third-party providers fail to appropriately deliver the contracted goods or services. We are dependent upon third-party services and products provided to us, including the following: 20 Table of Contents d by offshore call centers. A decline in levels of service or attention to the needs of our customers could adversely affect our reputation, renewal rates and ability to win new business. Our foreign operations expose us to regulatory risks and restrictions not present in our domestic operations. Our sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 14.2% , 14.6% and 14.1% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Collectively, we expect our foreign operations to continue to represent a significant portion of our business. Over the last 10 years, we have sold products in over 100 countries. Our foreign operations involve varying degrees of risk and uncertainties inherent in doing business abroad. Such risks include: 21 Table of Contents relating to satellites is regulated by BIS under EAR. Other items are controlled for export by the DDTC under ITAR. We cannot provide equipment or services to certain countries subject to U.S. trade sanctions unless we first obtain the necessary authorizations from OFAC. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in significant sanctions including fines, more onerous compliance requirements, debarments from export privileges, or loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of our international business. A violation of ITAR or the other regulations enumerated above could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience loss from some of our customer contracts. We provide access to our telecommunications networks to customers that use a variety of platforms such as satellite, wireless 3G and 4G, cable, fiber optic and DSL. These customer contracts may require us to provide services at a fixed price for the term of the contract. To facilitate the provision of this access, we may enter into contracts with terrestrial platform providers. Our agreements with these subcontractors may allow for prices to be changed during the term of the contracts. We assume greater financial risk on these customer contracts than on other types of contracts because if we do not estimate costs accurately and there is an increase in our subcontractors’ prices, our net profit may be significantly reduced or there may be a loss on the contracts. We may experience significant financial losses on our existing investments. We have entered into certain strategic transactions and investments. These investments involve a high degree of risk and could diminish our financial condition or our ability to fund a share repurchase program, invest capital in our business or return capital to our shareholders. The overall sustained economic uncertainty, as well as financial, operational and other difficulties encountered by certain companies in which we have invested increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity investments will differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. In addition, the companies in which we invest or with whom we partner may not be able to compete effectively or there may be insufficient demand for the services and products offered by these companies. These investments could also expose us to significant financial losses and may restrict our ability to make other investments or limit alternative uses of our capital resources. If our investments suffer losses, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may pursue acquisitions, capital expenditures and other strategic transactions to complement or expand our business, which may not be successful and we may lose a portion or all of our investment in these acquisitions and transactions. Our future success may depend on the existence of, and our ability to capitalize on, opportunities to acquire or develop other businesses or technologies or partner with other companies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business, services or products or that may otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures or other 22 Table of Contents business combination or development activities to complement or expand our business. Any such acquisitions, transactions or investments that we are able to identify and complete which may become substantial over time, involve a high degree of risk, including, but not limited to, the following: New acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and other transactions may require the commitment of significant capital that may otherwise be directed to investments in our existing businesses or be distributed to shareholders. Commitment of this capital may cause us to defer or suspend any share repurchases or capital expenditures that we otherwise may have made. We may not be able to generate cash to meet our debt service needs or fund our operations. As of December 31, 2016 , our total indebtedness was approximately $3.66 billion . Our ability to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is subject in part to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We may need to raise additional debt in order to fund ongoing operations or to capitalize on business opportunities. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our operations or other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash, we may be forced to take actions such as revising or delaying our strategic plans, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to implement any of these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. The indentures governing our indebtedness limit our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from such dispositions. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate those dispositions on satisfactory terms, or at all, or to use those proceeds in a manner we may otherwise prefer. In addition, conditions in the financial markets could make it difficult for us to access capital markets at acceptable terms or at all. Instability or other conditions in the equity markets could make it difficult for us to raise equity financing without incurring substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. In addition, sustained or increased economic weaknesses or pressures or new economic conditions may limit our ability to generate sufficient internal cash to fund investments, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other strategic transactions. We cannot predict with any certainty whether or not we will be impacted by economic conditions. As a result, these conditions make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities because we may not have access to funding sources necessary for us to pursue organic and strategic business development opportunities. Covenants in our indentures restrict our business in many ways. The indentures governing the Hughes Satellite Systems Corporation (“HSS”), a subsidiary of EchoStar, 6 1/2% Senior Secured Notes due 2019 (the “2019 Senior Secured Notes”), 7 5/8% Senior Notes due 2021 (the “2021 Senior Unsecured Notes”), 5.250% Senior Secured Notes due August 1, 2026 (the “2026 Senior Secured Notes”) and 6.625% Senior Unsecured Notes due August 1, 2026 (the “2026 Senior Unsecured Notes” and together with the 2026 Senior Secured Notes, the “2026 Notes”) contain various covenants, subject to certain exceptions, that limit our ability and/or our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: 23 Table of Contents Failure to comply with these and certain other financial covenants, if not cured or waived, may result in an event of default under the indentures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. If an event of default occurs and is continuing under the respective indenture, the trustee under that indenture or the requisite holders of the notes under that indenture may declare all such notes to be immediately due and payable and, in the case of the indentures governing any of our secured notes, could proceed against the collateral that secures the applicable secured notes. We and certain of our subsidiaries have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral to secure the 2019 Senior Secured Notes and the 2026 Senior Secured Notes. If we do not have enough cash to service our debt or fund other liquidity needs, we may be required to take actions such as requesting a waiver from the holders of the notes, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of the existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies can be implemented on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could result in the trustee declaring the notes to be immediately due and payable and/or foreclosing on the collateral. We rely on key personnel and the loss of their services may negatively affect our businesses. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent upon the performance of Mr. Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, and certain other key executives. The loss of Mr. Ergen or of certain other key executives or of the ability of Mr. Ergen or certain other key executives to devote sufficient time and effort to our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although most of our key executives have agreements limiting their ability to work for or consult with competitors, under certain circumstances, we generally do not have employment agreements with them. To the extent Mr. Ergen or other officers are performing services to both DISH Network and us, their attention may be diverted away from our business and therefore adversely affect our business. Pursuant to the terms of our preferred tracking stock and related agreements and policies, we could be required to use assets attributed to one group to pay liabilities attributed to the other group if the Share Exchange is not consummated. Even though we attribute, for financial reporting purposes, all of our consolidated assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flows to either the EchoStar Group or the Hughes Retail Group (see Note 4 in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this report for definitions and a further discussion of the preferred tracking stock, the EchoStar Group and the Hughes Retail Group) and prepare separate attributed financial information for the Hughes Retail Group, we retain legal title to all of our assets and our capitalization will not limit our legal responsibility, or that of our subsidiaries, for the liabilities included in our financial statements and such attributed financial information. As such, the assets attributed to one group are potentially subject to the liabilities attributed to the other group, even if those liabilities arise from lawsuits, contracts or indebtedness that are attributed to such other group. Although the policy statement (the “Policy Statement”) regarding the relationships between the EchoStar Group and the Hughes Retail Group with respect to matters such as the attribution and allocation of costs, tax liabilities and benefits, attribution of assets, corporate opportunities and similar items generally requires that all changes in the attribution of assets from one group to the other group will be made on a fair value basis as determined in accordance with certain guiding principles, these policies and our articles of incorporation generally do not prevent us from satisfying liabilities of one group with assets of the other group, and our creditors are not limited by our tracking stock capitalization from proceeding against any assets they could have proceeded against if we did not have a tracking stock capitalization. We may be subject to risks relating to the referendum of the United Kingdom’s membership of the European Union. In June 2016, the United Kingdom (the “U.K.”) held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the European Union and its member states (“EU”), commonly referred to as the “Brexit.” As a result of the referendum, it is expected that the U.K. government will begin negotiating the terms of the U.K.’s future relationship with the EU. Although it is unknown what those terms will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the U.K. and EU countries. 24 Table of Contents Additionally, with the U.K. no longer being a part of the EU, we anticipate that there may be certain regulatory changes that may impact the regulatory regime under which we operate in both the U.K. and the EU. These and other changes, implications and consequences of the Brexit may adversely affect our business and results of operations. A natural disaster could diminish our ability to provide service to our customers. Natural disasters could damage or destroy our ground stations, resulting in a disruption of service to our customers. We currently have backup systems and technology in place to safeguard our antennas and protect our ground stations during natural disasters such as tornadoes, but the possibility still exists that our ground facilities could be impacted during a major natural disaster. If a future natural disaster impairs or destroys any of our ground facilities, we may be unable to provide service to our customers in the affected area for a period of time which may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may have additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining our provisions for income taxes. In the course of preparing our tax provisions and returns, we must make calculations where the ultimate tax determination may be uncertain. Our tax returns are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), state, and foreign tax authorities. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. If the ultimate determination of taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SATELLITES Our owned and leased satellites in orbit are subject to significant operational and environmental risks that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. Satellites are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, which have occurred and may occur in the future in our satellites and the satellites of other operators as a result of various factors, such as satellite design and manufacturing defects, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. Although we work closely with the satellite manufacturers to determine and eliminate the cause of anomalies in new satellites and provide for redundancies of many critical components in the satellites, we may not be able to prevent anomalies from occurring and may experience anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies could materially and adversely affect our ability to utilize the satellite, our operations and revenue as well as our relationships with current customers and our ability to attract new customers. In particular, future anomalies may result in, among other things, the loss of individual transponders/beams on a satellite, a group of transponders/beams on that satellite or the entire satellite, depending on the nature of the anomaly. Anomalies may also reduce the expected capacity or useful life of a satellite, thereby reducing the revenue that could be generated by that satellite, or create additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or back-up satellites or satellite capacity earlier than planned. The loss of a satellite or other satellite malfunctions or anomalies could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, which we may not be able to mitigate by using available capacity on other satellites. There can be no assurance that we can recover critical transmission capacity in the event one or more of our in-orbit satellites were to fail. In addition, the loss of a satellite or other satellite malfunctions or anomalies could affect our ability to comply with FCC and other regulatory obligations and our ability to fund the construction or acquisition of replacement satellites for our in-orbit fleet in a timely fashion, or at all. There can be no assurance that anomalies will not impact the remaining useful life and/or the commercial operation of any of the satellites in our fleet. In addition, there can be no assurance that we can recover critical transmission capacity in the event one or more of our in-orbit satellites were to fail. Meteoroid events pose a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. The probability that meteoroids will damage those satellites increases significantly when the Earth passes through the particulate stream left behind by comets. Occasionally, increased solar activity also poses a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. Some decommissioned spacecraft are in uncontrolled orbits, which pass through the geostationary belt at various points and present hazards to operational spacecraft, including our satellites. We may be required to perform maneuvers to avoid 25 Table of Contents collisions and these maneuvers may prove unsuccessful or could reduce the useful life of the satellite through the expenditure of fuel to perform these maneuvers. The loss, damage or destruction of any of our satellites as a result of an electrostatic storm, collision with space debris, malfunction or other event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We historically have not carried in-orbit insurance on many of our satellites because we assessed that the cost of insurance was uneconomical relative to the risk of failures. If one or more of our in-orbit uninsured satellites fail, we could be required to record significant impairment charges for the satellite. Our satellites have minimum design lives ranging from 12 to 15 years, but could fail or suffer reduced capacity before then. Generally, the minimum design life of each of our satellites ranges from 12 to 15 years. We can provide no assurance, however, as to the actual operational lives of our satellites, which may be shorter or longer than their design lives. Our ability to earn revenue depends on the continued operation of our satellites, each of which has a limited useful life. A number of factors affect the useful lives of the satellites, including, among other things, the quality of their design and construction, the durability of their component parts, the ability to continue to maintain proper orbit and control over the satellite’s functions, the efficiency of the launch vehicle used, and the remaining on-board fuel following orbit insertion. In addition, continued improvements in satellite technology may make obsolete our existing satellites, or any satellites we may acquire in the future, prior to the end of their design lives. In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may relocate another satellite and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, such relocation would require governmental approval. We cannot be certain that we could obtain such governmental approval. In addition, we cannot guarantee that another satellite will be available for use as a replacement for a failed or lost satellite, or that such relocation can be accomplished without a substantial utilization of fuel. Any such utilization of fuel would reduce the operational life of the replacement satellite. Our satellites under construction are subject to risks related to construction and launch that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. Satellite construction and launch are subject to significant risks, including delays, anomalies, launch failure and incorrect orbital placement. Certain launch vehicles that may be used by us have either unproven track records or have experienced launch failures in the past. The risks of launch delay, launch anomalies and launch failure are usually greater when the launch vehicle does not have a track record of previous successful flights. Launch anomalies and failures can result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take more than three years, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Such significant delays could materially and adversely affect our business, expenses and results of operations, our ability to meet regulatory or contractual required milestones, the availability and our use of other or replacement satellite resources and our ability to provide services to customers as capacity becomes full on existing satellites. In addition, significant delays in a satellite program could give customers who have purchased or reserved capacity on that satellite a right to terminate their service contracts relating to the satellite. We may not be able to accommodate affected customers on other satellites until a replacement satellite is available. A customer’s termination of its service contracts with us as a result of a launch delay or failure would reduce our contracted backlog and our ability to generate revenue. One of our launch services providers is a Russian Federation state-owned company. Recent ongoing political events have created uncertainty as to the stability of U.S. and Russian Federation relations. This could add to risks relative to scheduling uncertainties and timing. Historically, we have not always carried launch insurance for the launch of our satellites. If a launch delay, anomaly or failure were to occur, it could result in the revocation of the applicable license to operate the satellite, undermine our ability to implement our business strategy or develop or pursue existing or future business opportunities with applicable licenses and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, expenses, assets, revenue, results of operations and ability to fund future satellite procurement and launch opportunities. In addition, the occurrence of launch anomalies and failures, whether on our satellites or those of others, may significantly reduce our ability to place launch insurance for our satellites or make launch insurance uneconomical. Our use of certain satellites is often dependent on satellite coordination agreements, which may be difficult to obtain. Satellite transmissions and the use of frequencies often are dependent on coordination with other satellite systems operated by U.S. or foreign satellite operators, including governments, and it can be difficult to determine the outcome of these coordination agreements with these other entities and governments. The impact of a coordination agreement may result in the loss of rights 26 Table of Contents to the use of certain frequencies or access to certain markets. The significance of such a loss would vary and it can therefore be difficult to determine which portion of our revenue will be impacted. Furthermore, the satellite coordination process is conducted under the guidance of the ITU radio regulations and the national regulations of the satellites involved in the coordination process. These rules and regulations could be amended and could therefore materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face interference from other services sharing satellite spectrum . The FCC and other regulators have adopted rules or may adopt rules in the future that allow non-geostationary orbit satellite services to operate on a co-primary basis in the same frequency band as DBS and FSS. The FCC has also authorized the use of multichannel video and data distribution service (“MVDDS”) in the DBS band. Several MVDDS systems are now being commercially deployed. Despite regulatory provisions designed to protect DBS and FSS operations from harmful interference, there can be no assurance that operations by other satellites or terrestrial communication services in the DBS and FSS bands will not interfere with our DBS and FSS operations and adversely affect our business. Our dependence on outside contractors could result in delays related to the design, manufacture and launch of our new satellites, which could in turn adversely affect our operating results. There are a limited number of manufacturers that are able to design and build satellites according to the technical specifications and standards of quality we require, including Airbus Defence and Space, Boeing Satellite Systems, Lockheed Martin, SS/L and Thales Alenia Space. There are also a limited number of launch service providers that are able to launch such satellites, including International Launch Services, Arianespace, Lockheed Martin Commercial Launch Services and Space Exploration. The loss of any of our manufacturers or launch service providers could increase the cost and result in the delay of the design, construction or launch of our satellites. Even if alternate suppliers for such services are available, we may have difficulty identifying them in a timely manner or we may incur significant additional expense in changing suppliers, and this could result in difficulties or delays in the design, construction or launch of our satellites. Any delays in the design, construction or launch of our satellites could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGY If we are unable to properly respond to technological changes, our business could be significantly harmed. Our business and the markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards and frequent product and service introductions and enhancements. If we or our suppliers are unable to properly respond to or keep pace with technological developments, fail to develop new technologies, or if our competitors obtain or develop proprietary technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior to ours, our existing products and services may become obsolete and demand for our products and services may decline. Even if we keep up with technological innovation, we may not meet the demands of the markets we serve. Furthermore, after we have incurred substantial research and development costs, one or more of the technologies under our development, or under development by one or more of our strategic partners, could become obsolete prior to its introduction. If we are unable to respond to or keep pace with technological advances on a cost-effective and timely basis, or if our products, applications or services are not accepted by the market, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our response to technological developments depends, to a significant degree, on the work of technically skilled employees. Competition for the services of such employees is intense. Although we strive to attract, retain and motivate these employees, we may not succeed in these respects. We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products, services and related technologies, as well as entry into new business areas. Investments in new technologies and business areas are inherently speculative and commercial success thereof depends on numerous factors including innovativeness, quality of service and support, and effectiveness of sales and marketing. We may not achieve revenue or profitability from such investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, even if such products, services, technologies and business areas become profitable, their operating margins may be minimal. 27 Table of Contents Our future growth depends on growing demand for advanced technologies. Future demand and effective delivery for our products will depend significantly on the growing demand for advanced technologies, such as broadband internet connectivity and, if the Share Exchange is not consummated, Ultra HDTV, 3D TV, whole-home HD DVR features, mobile internet delivery of video content, and on digital television operators developing and building infrastructure to provide these advanced technologies. If the deployment of, or demand for, advanced technologies is not as widespread or as rapid as we or our customers expect, our revenue growth will be negatively impacted. Our business depends on certain intellectual property rights and on not infringing the intellectual property rights of others. The loss of our intellectual property rights or our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others could have a significant adverse impact on our business. We rely on our patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as licenses and other agreements with our vendors and other parties, to use our technologies, conduct our operations and sell our products and services. Legal challenges to our intellectual property rights and claims by third parties of intellectual property infringement could require that we enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question or from the continuation of our businesses as currently conducted, which could require us to change our business practices or limit our ability to compete effectively or could otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Even if we believe any such challenges or claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Moreover, due to the rapid pace of technological change, we rely in part on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and if we are unable to obtain or continue to obtain licenses or other required intellectual property rights from these third parties on reasonable terms, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Technology licensed from third parties may have undetected errors that impair the functionality or prevent the successful integration of our products or services. As a result of any such changes or loss, we may need to incur additional development costs to ensure continued performance of our products or suffer delays until replacement technology, if available, can be obtained and integrated. In addition, we work with third parties such as vendors, contractors and suppliers for the development and manufacture of components that are integrated into our products and our products may contain technologies provided to us by these third parties. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether any such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of others. Our vendors, contractors and suppliers may not be required to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. Legal challenges to these intellectual property rights may impair our ability to use the products and technologies that we need in order to operate our business and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are, and may become, party to various lawsuits which, if adversely decided, could have a significant adverse impact on our business, particularly lawsuits regarding intellectual property. We are, and may become, subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which arise in the ordinary course of our business. Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that we offer. In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products or services infringes valid intellectual property rights held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those products or services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost, or to redesign those products or services in such a way as to avoid infringement. If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to license the necessary intellectual property rights at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position. We may not be aware of all patents and other intellectual property rights that our products and services may potentially infringe. In addition, patent applications in the U.S. and foreign countries are confidential until the Patent and Trademark Office either publishes the application or issues a patent (whichever arises first) and, accordingly, our products may infringe claims contained in pending patent applications of which we are not aware. Further, the process of determining definitively whether a patent claim is valid and whether a particular product infringes a valid patent claim often involves expensive and protracted litigation, even if we are ultimately successful on the merits. 28 Table of Contents We cannot estimate the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to intellectual property rights held by others and the availability and cost of any such licenses. Those costs, and their impact on our results of operations, could be material. Damages in patent infringement cases can be substantial, and in certain circumstances, can be trebled. To the extent that we are required to pay unanticipated royalties to third parties, these increased costs of doing business could negatively affect our liquidity and operating results. We are currently defending multiple patent infringement actions and may assert our own actions against parties we suspect of infringing our patents and trademarks. We cannot be certain the courts will conclude these companies do not own the rights they claim, that these rights are not valid, or that our products and services do not infringe on these rights. We also cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain licenses from these persons on commercially reasonable terms or, if we were unable to obtain such licenses, that we would be able to redesign our products and services to avoid infringement. The legal costs associated with defending patent suits and pursuing patent claims against others may be borne by us if we are not awarded reimbursement through the legal process. See further discussion under Item 1. - Business — Patents and Trademarks and Item 3. - Legal Proceedings of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. We may become involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, consumer claims and governmental and other legal proceedings arising from of our business, including new products and services that we may offer. Some of these proceedings may raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and can be subject to uncertainties and complexities. The timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is typically uncertain. Additionally, the possible outcomes of, or resolutions to, these proceedings could include adverse judgments, settlements or liabilities, any of which could require substantial payments or have other adverse impacts on our revenue, results of operations or cash flow. If the encryption and related security technology used in our products is compromised, sales of our products may decline. Our customers use encryption and related security technology obtained from us or our suppliers in the products that they purchase from us to control access to their programming content and to protect their data and products from unauthorized access to the features or functionalities of such products. Such encryption and related security technology has been compromised in the past and may be compromised in the future even though we continue to respond with significant investment in security measures, such as updates in security software, that are intended to make signal theft more difficult. It has been our prior experience that security measures may only be effective for short periods of time or not at all. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in reducing or controlling theft of our customers’ programming content. As a result, sales of our products may decline, our reputation and customer relationship could be damaged and we may incur additional costs or financial liability in the future if security of our customers’ system is compromised. We rely on network and information systems and other technologies and a disruption, cyber-attack, failure or destruction of such networks, systems or technologies may disrupt or harm our business and damage our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure are important to the operation of our business, which would suffer in the event of system disruptions or failures, such as computer hackings, cyber-attacks, computer viruses or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks or other malicious activities. Security breaches, attacks, unauthorized access and other malicious activities have significantly increased in recent years, and some of them have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on computer networks. Our networks, systems and technologies and those of our third-party service providers and our customers may also be vulnerable to such security breaches, attacks, malicious activities and unauthorized access, resulting in misappropriation, misuse, leakage, corruption, unscheduled downtime, falsification and accidental or intentional release or loss of information maintained on our and our third party service providers’ information technology systems and networks, including but not limited to customer, personnel and vendor data. If such risks were to materialize, we could be exposed to significant costs and interruptions, delays or malfunctions in our operations, any of which could damage our reputation and credibility and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be required to expend significant resources to protect against these threats or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. Although we have significantly invested in and continue to implement generally recognized security measures, these measures may prove to be inadequate and we could be subject to regulatory penalties, fines, sanctions, enforcement actions, remediation obligations, and/or private litigation by parties whose information was improperly accessed, disclosed or misused which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the amount and scope of insurance that we maintain against losses resulting from these events may not be sufficient to compensate us adequately for any disruptions to our business or otherwise cover our losses, including reputational harm and negative publicity 29 Table of Contents as well as any litigation liability. In addition, our ability to expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. A security breach or attack could impact our ability to expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure which could have adverse consequences, including the delayed implementation of new offerings, product or service interruptions, and the diversion of development resources. If our products contain defects, we could be subject to significant costs to correct such defects and our product and network service contracts could be delayed or cancelled, which could adversely affect our revenue. The products and the networks we deploy are highly complex, and some may contain defects when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released, despite testing and our quality control procedures. For example, our products may contain software “bugs” that can unexpectedly interfere with their operation. Defects may also occur in components and products that we purchase from third parties. In addition, many of our products and network services are designed to interface with our customers’ existing networks, each of which has different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards. Our products and services must interoperate with the other products and services within our customers’ networks, as well as with future products and services that might be added to these networks, to meet our customers’ requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to detect and fix all defects in the products and networks we sell. The occurrence of any defects, errors or failures in our products or network services could result in: (i) additional costs to correct such defects; (ii) cancellation of orders and lost revenue; (iii) a reduction in revenue backlog; (iv) product returns or recalls; (v) diversion of our resources; (vi) the issuance of credits to customers and other losses to us, our customers or end-users; (vii) liability for harm to persons and property caused by defects in or failures of our products or services; and (viii) harm to our reputation if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing or warranty repairs. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and services and loss of sales, which would harm our reputation and our business and materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. RISKS RELATED TO THE REGULATION OF OUR BUSINESS Our business is subject to risks of adverse government regulation. Our business is subject to varying degrees of regulation in the U.S. by the FCC, and other federal, state and local entities, and in foreign countries by similar entities and internationally by the ITU. These regulations are subject to the administrative and political process and do change, for political and other reasons, from time to time. For example, the FCC recently adopted an order in its “Spectrum Frontiers” proceeding under which a portion of the Ka-band, in which we operate our broadband gateway earth stations, has been enabled for 5G mobile terrestrial services, which could limit our flexibility to change the way in which we use Ka-band in the future. Other countries in which we currently, or may in the future, operate are also considering regulations that could limit access to the Ka-band or other frequency bands. The FCC has also opened a proceeding on non-geostationary satellites, which may adversely impact our ability to use certain spectrum for user terminals. Moreover, a substantial number of foreign countries in which we have, or may in the future make, an investment, regulate, in varying degrees, the ownership of satellites and other telecommunication facilities/networks and foreign investment in telecommunications companies. Violations of laws or regulations may result in various sanctions including fines, loss of authorizations and the denial of applications for new authorizations or for the renewal of existing authorizations. Further material changes in law and regulatory requirements may also occur, and there can be no assurance that our business and the business of our subsidiaries and affiliates will not be adversely affected by future legislation, new regulation or deregulation. The failure to obtain or comply with the authorizations and regulations governing our operations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and our overall competitive position and could result in our suffering serious harm to our reputation. Our business depends on regulatory authorizations issued by the FCC and state and foreign regulators that can expire, be revoked or modified, and applications for licenses and other authorizations that may not be granted. Generally all satellite, earth stations and other licenses granted by the FCC and most other countries are subject to expiration unless renewed by the regulatory agency. Our satellite licenses are currently set to expire at various times. In addition, we occasionally receive special temporary authorizations that are granted for limited periods of time (e.g., 180 days or less) and subject to possible renewal. Generally, our licenses and special temporary authorizations have been renewed on a routine basis, but there can be no assurance that this will continue. There can be no assurance that the FCC or other regulators will continue granting applications for new licenses or for the renewal of existing ones. If the FCC or other regulators were to cancel, revoke, suspend, or fail to renew any of our licenses or authorizations, or fail to grant our applications for FCC or other licenses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, loss of a frequency authorization would reduce the amount of spectrum available to us, potentially reducing the amount of services 30 Table of Contents we provide to our customers. The significance of such a loss of authorizations would vary based upon, among other things, the orbital location, the frequency band and the availability of replacement spectrum. In addition, the legislative and executive branches of the U.S. government and foreign governments often consider legislation and regulatory requirements that could affect us, as could the actions that the FCC and foreign regulatory bodies take. We cannot predict the outcomes of these legislative or regulatory proceedings or their effect on our business. In addition, third parties have or may oppose some of our license applications and pending and future requests for extensions, modifications, waivers and approvals of our licenses. Even if we have fully complied with all of the required reporting, filing and other requirements in connection with our authorizations, it is possible a regulator could decline to grant certain of our applications or requests for authority, or could revoke, terminate, condition or decline to modify, extend or renew certain of our authorizations or licenses. Our ability to sell our digital set-top boxes to certain operators if the Share Exchange is not consummated depends on our ability to obtain licenses to use the conditional access systems utilized by these operators. Our commercial success in selling our digital set-top boxes to cable television and other operators depends significantly on our ability to obtain licenses to use the conditional access systems deployed by these operators in our digital set-top boxes. In many cases, the intellectual property rights to these conditional access systems are owned by the set-top box manufacturer that currently provides the system operator with its set-top boxes. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain required licenses on commercially favorable terms, or at all. If we do not obtain the necessary licenses, we may be delayed or prevented from pursuing the development of some potential products with cable or other television operators. If the Share Exchange is not consummated, our failure to obtain a license to use the conditional access systems that we may require to develop or commercialize our digital set-top boxes with cable television or other operators, in turn, would harm our ability to grow our customer base and our financial condition, revenue and results of operation. We may face difficulties in accurately assessing and collecting contributions towards the Universal Service Fund. Because our customer contracts often include both telecommunications services, which create obligations to contribute to the USF, and other goods and services, which do not, it can be difficult to determine what portion of our revenue forms the basis for our required contribution to the USF and the amount that we can recover from our customers. If the FCC, which oversees the USF, or a court or other governmental entity were to determine that we computed our USF contribution obligation incorrectly or passed the wrong amount onto our customers, we could become subject to additional assessments, liabilities, or other financial penalties. In addition, the FCC is considering substantial changes to its USF contribution and distribution rules. These changes could impact our future contribution obligations and those of third parties that provide communication services to our business. Any such change to the USF contribution rules could adversely affect our costs of providing service to our customers. In addition, changes to the USF distribution rules could intensify the competition we face by offering subsidies to competing firms and/or technologies. RISKS RELATED TO THE PENDING SHARE EXCHANGE There are risks and uncertainties associated with the pending Share Exchange. There are a number of risks and uncertainties associated with the pending Share Exchange including, among others, the potential failure to satisfy the conditions to closing, including the conditions related to obtaining required governmental approvals. To the extent that the market price of our Class A common stock reflects an assumption that the Share Exchange will be consummated in the time frame and the manner currently anticipated, any delay or failure to close could cause a decline in such market price. Similarly, any delay or failure to complete the Share Exchange could negatively impact our relationships with DISH Network, other customers, suppliers and employees and could adversely affect our business. Pending completion of the Share Exchange, the attention of our management may be focused on the transaction and related matters, and diverted from our day-to-day business operations, including from other opportunities that might benefit us. In addition, pursuant to the Share Exchange Agreement, prior to closing of the Share Exchange, we have agreed to conduct the transferring businesses in the ordinary course and not to undertake certain actions without the written consent of DISH Network. These restrictions could prevent us from pursuing certain beneficial business opportunities. If we successfully complete the Share Exchange, thus divesting the transferring businesses, our revenues will decrease accordingly and our business will be subject to concentration of the risks that affect our retained businesses. In addition, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant transaction costs, expenses and fees for professional services in connection with the pending Share Exchange, which are payable by us regardless of whether the Share Exchange is consummated. 31 Table of Contents We might not be able to engage in certain strategic transactions because we have agreed to certain restrictions to comply with U.S. federal income tax requirements for a tax-free split-off. To preserve the intended tax-free treatment of the Share Exchange, we will undertake upon closing of the Share Exchange to comply with certain restrictions under current U.S. federal income tax laws for split-offs, including (i) refraining from engaging in certain transactions that would result in a fifty percent or greater change by vote or by value in our stock ownership, (ii) continuing to own and manage our historic businesses, and (iii) limiting sales or redemptions of our and our subsidiary Hughes Satellite Systems Corporation’s common stock. If these restrictions, among others, are not followed, the Share Exchange could be taxable to us and possibly our stockholders. In addition, we could be required to indemnify DISH Network for any tax liability incurred by DISH Network as a result of our non-compliance with these restrictions. OTHER RISKS We are controlled by one principal stockholder who is our Chairman. Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, beneficially owns approximately 43.3% of our total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B common stock held by Mr. Ergen into Class A common stock and giving effect to the exercise of options held by Mr. Ergen that are either currently exercisable or may become exercisable within 60 days of February 15, 2017) and possesses approximately 63.6% of the total voting power of all classes of shares (assuming no conversion of the Class B common stock and no conversion of the preferred tracking stock and giving effect to the exercise of options held by Mr. Ergen that are either currently exercisable or may become exercisable within 60 days of February 15, 2017). Mr. Ergen’s beneficial ownership excludes 1,640 shares of our Class A common stock and 14,493,094 shares of our Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of shares of our Class B common stock, in each case, currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 23.6% of our total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B common stock held by such trusts into Class A common stock) and possess approximately 27.6% of our total voting power of all classes of shares (assuming no conversion of the Class B common stock and no conversion of the preferred tracking stock). Thus, Mr. Ergen has the ability to elect a majority of our directors and to control all other matters requiring the approval of our stockholders. As a result of Mr. Ergen’s voting power, we are a “controlled company” as defined in the Nasdaq listing rules and, therefore, are not subject to Nasdaq requirements that would otherwise require us to have (i) a majority of independent directors; (ii) a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors; (iii) compensation of our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; and (iv) director nominees selected, or recommended for the Board’s selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. We have potential conflicts of interest with DISH Network due to our common ownership. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between DISH Network and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Areas in which conflicts of interest between DISH Network and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: 32 Table of Contents We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts of interest with DISH Network and, even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. Except for certain arrangements with Sling TV Holding L.L.C. (“Sling TV Holding,” formerly DISH Digital Holding L.L.C.) that we entered into with DISH Network, which, subject to certain exceptions, limits DISH Network’s and our ability to operate an internet protocol television (“IPTV”) service other than that operated by Sling TV Holding, we do not have any agreements not to compete with DISH Network. However, many of our potential customers who compete with DISH Network have historically perceived us as a competitor due to our affiliation with DISH Network. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into any commercial relationships with potential customers who are competitors of DISH Network (particularly if we continue to be perceived as affiliated with DISH Network as a result of common ownership, certain shared management services and other arrangements with DISH Network). It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders, because of our capital structure. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: In addition, Charles W. Ergen owns a majority of our common stock, including Class B common stock, which results in Mr. Ergen having the power to elect all of our directors and control shareholder decision on matters on which all classes of our common stock vote together. 33 Table of Contents In addition, pursuant to our articles of incorporation we have a significant amount of authorized and unissued stock that would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. The preferred tracking stock in our capital structure may create conflicts of interest for our board of directors and management, and our board of directors may make decisions that could adversely affect only one group of holders. If the Share Exchange is not consummated, our preferred tracking stock capital structure could give rise to occasions when the interests of holders of stock of one group might diverge or appear to diverge from the interests of holders of stock of the other group and our board of directors or officers could make decisions that could adversely affect only one group of holders. Nevada law requires that our board of directors and officers act in good faith and with a view to the interest of the company and are not required to consider, as a dominant factor, the effect of a proposed corporate action upon any particular group of stockholders. Decisions deemed to be in the interest of our company may not always align with the best interest of a particular group of our stockholders when considered independently. Examples include, but are not limited to: In addition, as our preferred tracking stock is currently held by DISH Network, if the Share Exchange is not consummated questions relating to conflicts of interest may also arise between DISH Network and us due to our common ownership and Chairman. Provisions of Nevada law and our articles of incorporation may protect decisions of our board of directors and officers that have a disparate impact on one group of holders. Our stockholders may have limited or no legal remedies under Nevada law with respect to such decisions even if the actions of our directors or officers adversely affect the market value of our common stock. If the Share Exchange is not consummated, our board of directors has the ability to change our attribution policies at any time without a vote of our common stockholders. Our board of directors has adopted the Policy Statement. Our board of directors may at any time change or make exceptions to the Policy Statement with only the consent of holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our preferred tracking stock. Because these policies relate to matters concerning the day-to-day management of our company as opposed to significant corporate actions, such as a merger involving the Company or a sale of substantially all of our assets, no approval from the holders of our Class A common stock is required with respect to the changes or exceptions to these policies. A decision to change, or make exceptions to the Policy Statement or adopt additional policies could disadvantage one group of shareholders while advantaging another. If the Share Exchange is not consummated, the preferred tracking stock results in, and may result in further, vote dilution for existing holders of common stock. Each share of preferred tracking stock is entitled to one-tenth (1/10th) of one vote per share. This voting right will cause a reduction in the relative voting power of our exiting common stock holders. Additionally, if the Share Exchange is not consummated, we may be required to register some or all of the outstanding shares of the preferred tracking stock. Following such registration, these shares of preferred tracking stock may be converted or exchanged into shares of EchoStar Class A common stock. Such conversion may result in further reducing the relative voting power of our existing common stock holders. As a result of the dilutive effect of the preferred tracking stock, the ability of existing holders of common stock to elect our directors or to control all other matters requiring the approval of our stockholders may be reduced. 34 Table of Contents We generally may dispose of assets of the Hughes Retail Group without shareholder approval. Nevada law requires stockholder approval only for a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, taken as a whole, and our amended articles of incorporation do not require a separate class vote in the case of a sale of a significant amount of assets of any of our groups. As long as the assets attributed to the Hughes Retail Group proposed to be disposed of represent less than substantially all of our assets, we may approve sales and other dispositions of any amounts of the assets of such group without any shareholder approval. Based on the current composition of the Hughes Retail Group and our Company, if the Share Exchange is not consummated, we believe that a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Hughes Retail Group would not be considered a sale of substantially all of our assets requiring stockholder approval. Our board of directors would determine how best to proceed in any such sale consistent with its fiduciary duties to all of our shareholders. Ultimately, however, our board of directors is not required under Nevada law to select the option that would result in the highest value to any particular group of stockholders. If the Share Exchange is not consummated, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected by events involving the assets and businesses attributed to only the Hughes Retail Group. Because we are the issuer of common stock and preferred tracking stock, events relating to the assets and businesses attributed to the Hughes Retail Group, such as earnings announcements or announcements of new products or services, or acquisitions or dispositions that the market does not view favorably, may cause an adverse reaction to our common stock. This could occur even if the triggering event is not material to us as a whole. Our articles of incorporation designate the Eighth Judicial District Court of Clark County of the State of Nevada as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or agents. Our articles of incorporation provide that, unless we consent in writing to an alternative forum, the Eighth Judicial District Court of Clark County of the State of Nevada will be the sole and exclusive forum for any and all actions, suits or proceedings, whether civil, administrative or investigative or that asserts any claim or counterclaim brought in our name or on our behalf, asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or agents to us or our stockholders, arising or asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Nevada Restated Statutes Chapters 78 or 92A, our articles of incorporation or our bylaws, interpreting, applying, enforcing or determining the validity of our articles of incorporation or bylaws or asserting a claim that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in any shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to this provision of our articles of incorporation. This choice of forum provision may limit our stockholders’ ability to bring certain claims, including claims against our directors, officers or employees, in a judicial forum that the stockholder finds favorable and therefore the choice of forum provision may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. Stockholders who do bring a claim in the Eighth Judicial District Court of Clark County could face additional litigation costs in pursuing any such claim, particularly if they do not reside in or near Nevada. The Eighth Judicial District Court of Clark County may also reach different judgments or results than would other courts, including courts where a stockholder considering an action may be located or would otherwise choose to bring the action, and such judgments or results may be more favorable to us than to our stockholders. Alternatively, if a court were to find this provision of our articles of incorporation inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) could adversely affect our reported financial results and may require significant changes to our internal accounting systems and processes. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. The FASB is currently working together with the International Accounting Standards Board to converge certain accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies that are required to follow GAAP and those that are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards. In connection with this initiative, the FASB issued new accounting standards for revenue recognition and accounting for leases. For information regarding new accounting standards, please refer to Note 2 in the notes to consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this report under the heading “New Accounting Pronouncements.” These and other such standards may result in different accounting principles, which may 35 Table of Contents significantly impact our reported results or could result in volatility of our financial results. In addition, we may need to significantly change our customer and vendor contracts, accounting systems and processes. The cost and effect of these changes may adversely impact our results of operations. We may face other risks described from time to time in periodic and current reports we file with the SEC.