," Item 3—"Legal Proceedings," and Item 8—"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," Note 7, "Long-Term Debt," Note 8, "Related Party Transactions," and Note 14, "Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation." We present the operating results of our three resorts in the following segments: Wynn Macau, Wynn Palace, and Las Vegas Operations. For more information on our segments, see Item 8—"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," Note 15, "Segment Information." Wynn Resorts, a Nevada corporation, was formed in 2002. Wynn Resorts files annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments of such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Any document Wynn Resorts files may be inspected, without charge, at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549 or at the SEC's internet site address at http://www.sec.gov . Information related to the operation of the SEC's public reference room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, through our own internet address at www.wynnresorts.com , Wynn Resorts provides a hyperlink to a third-party SEC filing website which posts these filings as soon as reasonably practicable, where they can be reviewed without charge. The information found on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report we file or furnish to the SEC. Our Resorts Macau Operations We opened Wynn Macau on September 6, 2006, Encore, an expansion of Wynn Macau, on April 21, 2010, and Wynn Palace on August 22, 2016. We operate our Macau Operations under a 20-year casino concession agreement granted by the Macau government in June 2002. We lease from the Macau government approximately 16 acres of land in downtown Macau's inner harbor where Wynn Macau is located and 51 acres of land in the Cotai area of Macau where Wynn Palace is located. See "Regulation and Licensing—Macau" for details on the casino concession agreement, and see "