—Legal, Governmental, and Regulatory Risks— Compliance with, or developments concerning, the Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Blending Programs, and other regulations, policies, and standards impacting the demand for low-carbon fuels could adversely affect our performance .” In addition, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding our accounting for the costs of the blending programs under “ Costs of Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Blending Programs,” Note 21 for disclosure of the costs of the blending programs under “Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Blending Programs Price Risk,” and Note 18 for disclosure of our blender’s tax credits under “ Segment Information .” U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) Program The EPA created the RFS program pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. Under the RFS program, by November 30 of each year, the EPA is required to set annual quotas for the volume of renewable fuels that must be blended into petroleum-based transportation fuels consumed in the U.S. in the next compliance year. The quotas are set by class of renewable fuel (i.e., biomass-based diesel, cellulosic biofuel, advanced biofuel, and total renewable fuel) and are collectively referred to as the renewable volume obligation (RVO). The RVO must be met by obligated parties, who are the producers and importers of the petroleum-based transportation fuels consumed in the U.S. Obligated parties demonstrate compliance annually by retiring the appropriate number of renewable identification numbers (RINs) associated with each class of renewable fuel to 2 Table of Contents satisfy their obligations for the previous calendar year. A RIN is effectively a compliance credit that is assigned to each gallon of qualifying renewable fuel produced in, or imported into, the U.S. RINs are obtained by blending renewable fuels into petroleum-based transportation fuels, and obligated parties can also achieve compliance by purchasing RINs in the open market. We are an obligated party under this program and our Refining segment incurs obligations as a result of being a producer and importer of petroleum-based transportation fuels consumed in the U.S., but we are also a renewable fuels producer and blender under this program and generate RINs as a result of being a producer and blender of renewable diesel, renewable naphtha, and ethanol. Therefore, there is a cost to our refining business from this program because we must purchase RINs to comply with our RVO; however, we also generate revenue from this program because we produce and sell qualifying renewable fuels. California Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) Under California’s Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) was required to undertake a statewide effort to reduce GHG emissions. One of the programs designed to help achieve those reductions is the LCFS program. The LCFS program is designed to reduce GHG emissions by decreasing the carbon intensity (CI) of transportation fuels consumed in the state. Under this program, each fuel is assigned a CI value, which is intended to represent the GHG emissions associated with the feedstocks from which the fuel was produced, the fuel production and distribution activities, and the use of the finished fuel. CIs are determined using a CARB-developed life cycle GHG emissions analysis model, and CI pathways are certified by the CARB after low-carbon fuel producers submit operational data to demonstrate the life cycle GHG emissions. The certified CIs for both low-carbon and petroleum-based fuels are compared to a declining annual benchmark. Fuels below the benchmark generate credits, while fuels above the benchmark generate deficits. The lower the fuel’s CI score compared to the benchmark, the greater number of credits generated. Each producer or importer of fuel must demonstrate that the overall mix of fuels it supplies for use in California meets the CI benchmarks for each compliance period. A producer or importer with a fuel mix that is above the CI benchmark must purchase LCFS credits sufficient to meet the CI benchmark. We produce and import petroleum-based transportation fuels in California and thus must blend low-CI fuels or purchase credits to meet the CI benchmark. However, fuels produced by our Renewable Diesel and Ethanol segments have CI scores that are lower than traditional petroleum-based transportation fuels, and we benefit from the demand from other regulated entities for these low-carbon products. In addition, the demand for some of these low-carbon transportation fuels tends to drive higher values for those fuels compared to petroleum-based transportation fuels due to their lower CI scores. We seek to pursue opportunities to further lower the CI of many of our products, including our low-carbon fuels. See “ Our Low-Carbon Projects ” below. U.S. Federal Tax Incentives The U.S. federal government has enacted tax incentives to encourage the production of low-carbon fuels and/or reduce GHG emissions. For example, Section 6426 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), provides a tax credit (generally referred to as the blender’s tax credit) to blenders of certain renewable fuels to encourage the production and blending of those fuels with traditional petroleum-based transportation fuels. Only blenders that have produced a mixture and either sold or used the fuel mixture as fuel are eligible for the blender’s tax credit. The renewable diesel produced by our Renewable Diesel segment is a liquid fuel derived from biomass that meets the EPA’s fuel registration requirements; therefore, renewable diesel that we produce and blend qualifies for this refundable tax credit of one dollar per gallon. Under existing legislation, this credit will not apply to any sale or use of 3 Table of Contents renewable diesel for any period after December 31, 2022 unless extended. The Build Back Better Act, as passed by the U.S. House of Representatives on November 19, 2021, would extend this credit through December 31, 2026, but there is no certainty that this legislation will become law or that the provision contained in this legislation authorizing the credit or the amount of the credit will not be revised. However, legislation authorizing this credit has been extended or retroactively extended since its inception in 2004. In addition, Section 45Q (45Q) of the Code provides federal income tax credits to certain taxpayers who capture and sequester, store, or use qualified carbon oxides (e.g., carbon dioxide) in accordance with the provisions of 45Q . We continually evaluate such federal income tax incentives, and may strategically pursue certain opportunities to optimize the potential benefits therefrom. For instance, the carbon capture and sequestration projects at our ethanol plants discussed below under “ Our Low-Carbon Projects ” sho uld increase the value of the ethanol product produced at those plants by helping decrease its CI score and through the expected generation of 45Q tax credits . Our Low-Carbon Projects We have invested $4.2 billion 2 to date in our low-carbon fuels businesses, and we expect additional growth opportunities in this area. In 2021, we completed the expansion of DGD’s existing renewable diesel plant (the DGD Plant). The expansion increased the DGD Plant’s renewable diesel production capacity by 410 million gallons per year, bringing DGD’s total renewable diesel production capacity to 700 million gallons per year, and provided DGD with the ability to produce 30 million gallons per year of renewable naphtha. Also in 2021, DGD commenced construction of its second plant. Over the next 15 months, we expect to invest approximately $800 million to complete the construction of DGD’s second plant, which is expected to have a production capacity of 470 million gallons of renewable diesel and 20 million gallons of renewable naphtha per year. See “OUR OPERATIONS— Renewable Diesel ” below for additional information about the expansion of our renewable diesel business. We continue to evaluate and advance investments in economic, low-carbon projects, including projects that are intended to lower the CI of our products. For example, in March 2021, we announced our participation in a large-scale carbon capture and sequestration pipeline system in the Mid-Continent region of the U.S. that is expected to capture, transport, and store carbon dioxide that results from the ethanol manufacturing process at our eight ethanol plants located in Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, and South Dakota. We expect to be the anchor shipper with those eight ethanol plants connected to the system. The capture and sequestration of this carbon dioxide should result in the generation of 45Q tax credits and the production of a lower CI ethanol product that we expect to market in low-carbon fuel markets, which is expected to result in a higher value for this product. A third party is expected to construct, own, and operate the system, and we believe that our capital investment to purchase, install, and connect the applicable carbon capture equipment to the system will not be material. Initial service is anticipated to begin in late 2024. Additionally, certain of our other ethanol plants are located near geology believed to be suitable for sequestering carbon dioxide, and we are evaluating stand-alone projects to sequester carbon dioxide that results from the ethanol manufacturing process at those plants. See “ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES— Our Capital Resources 2 Our investment to date in our low-carbon fuels businesses consists of $2.5 billion in capital investments to build our renewable diesel business and $1.7 billion to build our ethanol business. Capital investments in renewable diesel represent 100 percent of the capital investments made by DGD. See also “ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES— Our Capital Resources —Capital Investments,” which is incorporated by reference into this item for our definition of capital investments. 4 Table of Contents —Capital Investments” for further discussion of our capital investments associated with low-carbon projects. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS We have well-developed management structures that are central to our decision making and risk management, including three programs that support our environmental management as follows: • Our Commitment to Excellence Management System (CTEMS) is a proprietary systematic approach to planning, executing, checking, and acting to improve everyday work activities at many of our refineries and plants. CTEMS has 10 elements: leadership accountability, protecting people and the environment, people and skills development, operations reliability and mechanical integrity, technical excellence and knowledge management, change management, business competitiveness, stakeholder relationships, assurance and review, and continual improvement. Risks related to regulatory issues and physical threats to our refineries and plants are among those assessed as we implement CTEMS. • Environmental Excellence and Risk Assessment (EERA) elevates the environmental audit and compliance functions to an environmental excellence vision. Its main goal is to assess the design and effectiveness of environmental performance regarding specific excellence objectives, and to facilitate continuous improvement across the company. EERA defines more than 100 expectations and involves a proprietary five-step process using due diligence on data and field assessments reviewed by a combination of external and internal subject matter experts. • Our Fuels Regulatory Assurance Program provides operational safeguards, software, training, and protocols for uniformity across our refineries and plants to reinforce our compliance with applicable fuels regulations. Building on the success of this system, we are developing a proprietary Low-Carbon Assurance Program designed to provide tools and oversight to assure compliance with the increasingly complex array of low-carbon fuels programs. OUR OPERATIONS Our operations are managed through the following reportable segments: • our Refining segment, which includes the operations of our petroleum refineries, the associated activities to market our refined petroleum products, and the logistics assets that support those operations; • our Renewable Diesel segment, which includes the operations of DGD and the associated activities to market renewable diesel; and • our Ethanol segment, which includes the operations of our ethanol plants and the associated activities to market our ethanol and co-products. Financial information about these segments is presented in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated by reference into this item. See “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS—Risks Related to Our Business, Industry, and Operations— Our financial results are affected by volatile margins, which are dependent upon factors beyond our control, 5 Table of Contents including the price of crude oil, corn, and other feedstocks and the market price at which we can sell our products ,”—“ Disruption of our ability to obtain crude oil, waste and renewable feedstocks, corn, and other feedstocks could adversely affect our operations ,”—“ Technological and industry developments, and evolving investor and market sentiment regarding fossil fuels and GHG emissions, may decrease the demand for our products and could adversely affect our performance ,”—“ Our investments in joint ventures and other entities decrease our ability to manage risk ,” and —“Legal, Governmental, and Regulatory Risks— Compliance with, or developments concerning, the Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Blending Programs, and other regulations, policies, and standards impacting the demand for low-carbon fuels could adversely affect our performance ,” which are incorporated by reference into this item. Refining Refineries Overview Our 15 petroleum refineries are located in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K., and they have a combined feedstock throughput capacity of approximately 3.2 million BPD. The following table presents the locations of these refineries and their feedstock throughput capacities as of December 31, 2021. ________________________ (a) Throughput capacity represents estimated capacity for processing crude oil, intermediates, and other feedstocks. Total estimated crude oil capacity is approximately 2.6 million BPD. (b) Represents the combined capacities of two refineries – the Corpus Christi East and Corpus Christi West Refineries. • California ◦ Benicia Refinery . Our Benicia Refinery is located northeast of San Francisco on the Carquinez Straits of San Francisco Bay. It processes sour crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and asphalt. Gasoline production is primarily California Reformulated Blendstock Gasoline for 6 Table of Contents Oxygenate Blending (CARBOB), which meets CARB specifications when blended with ethanol. The refinery receives crude oil feedstocks via a marine dock and crude oil pipelines connected to a southern California crude oil delivery system. Most of the refinery’s products are distributed via pipeline and truck rack into northern California markets. ◦ Wilmington Refinery . Our Wilmington Refinery is located near Los Angeles. The refinery processes a blend of heavy and high-sulfur crude oils. The refinery produces CARBOB gasoline, diesel, CARB diesel, jet fuel, and asphalt. The refinery is connected by pipeline to marine terminals and associated dock facilities that move and store crude oil and other feedstocks. Refined petroleum products are distributed via pipeline systems to various third-party terminals in Southern California, Nevada, and Arizona. • Louisiana ◦ Meraux Refinery . Our Meraux Refinery is located approximately 15 miles southeast of New Orleans on the Mississippi River. The refinery processes sour and sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and high-sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives crude oil at its dock and has access to the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port. Finished products are shipped from the refinery’s dock and through the Colonial Pipeline. The refinery is located about 40 miles from our St. Charles Refinery, allowing for integration of feedstocks and refined petroleum product blending. ◦ St. Charles Refinery . Our St. Charles Refinery is located approximately 25 miles west of New Orleans on the Mississippi River. The refinery processes sour crude oils and other feedstocks into gasoline and diesel. The refinery receives crude oil over docks and has access to the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port. Finished products are shipped over these docks and through our Parkway pipeline and the Bengal pipeline, which ultimately provide access to the Plantation and Colonial pipeline networks. • Oklahoma ◦ Ardmore Refinery . Our Ardmore Refinery is located approximately 100 miles south of Oklahoma City. It processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline and diesel. The refinery predominantly receives Permian Basin and Cushing-sourced crude oil via third-party pipelines. Refined petroleum products are transported via rail, trucks, and the Magellan pipeline system. • Tennessee ◦ Memphis Refinery . Our Memphis Refinery is located on the Mississippi River. It processes primarily sweet crude oils. Most of its production is gasoline, diesel, and jet fuels. The refinery’s crude oil supply is primarily delivered by pipeline from Cushing, Oklahoma via the Diamond Pipeline and from North Dakota via the Dakota Access Pipeline. Crude oil can also be received, along with other feedstocks, via barge. Most of the refinery’s products are distributed via truck rack and barges. • Texas ◦ Corpus Christi East and West Refineries . Our Corpus Christi East and West Refineries are located on the Corpus Christi Ship Channel. The East Refinery processes sour crude oil, and the West Refinery processes sweet crude oil, sour crude oil, and residual fuel oil. The feedstocks are delivered by tanker and barge via deepwater docking facilities on the Corpus Christi Ship Channel, and West Texas or South Texas crude oil is delivered via pipelines. The refineries’ physical locations allow for the transfer of various feedstocks and blending components between 7 Table of Contents them. The refineries produce gasoline, aromatics, jet fuel, diesel, and asphalt. Truck racks service local markets for gasoline, diesel, jet fuels, liquefied petroleum gases, and asphalt. These and other finished products are also distributed by ship and barge across docks and third-party pipelines. ◦ Houston Refinery . Our Houston Refinery is located on the Houston Ship Channel. It processes sweet crude and intermediate oils into gasoline, jet fuel, and diesel. The refinery receives its feedstocks primarily by various interconnecting pipelines and also has waterborne-receiving capability at deepwater docking facilities on the Houston Ship Channel. The majority of its finished products are delivered to local, mid-continent U.S., and northeastern U.S. markets through various pipelines, including the Colonial and Explorer pipelines. ◦ McKee Refinery . Our McKee Refinery is located in the Texas Panhandle. It processes primarily sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuels, and asphalt. The refinery has access to local and Permian Basin crude oil sources via third-party pipelines. Refined petroleum products are transported primarily via third-party pipelines and rail to markets in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, Oklahoma, and Mexico. ◦ Port Arthur Refinery . Our Port Arthur Refinery is located on the Texas Gulf Coast approximately 90 miles east of Houston. The refinery processes heavy sour crude oils and other feedstocks into gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel. The refinery receives crude oil by rail, marine docks, and pipelines. Finished products are distributed into the Colonial, Explorer, and other pipelines, and across the refinery docks into ships and barges. The refinery’s new coker project is expected to be completed in the first half of 2023. ◦ Texas City Refinery . Our Texas City Refinery is located southeast of Houston on the Houston Ship Channel. The refinery processes crude oils into gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel. The refinery receives its feedstocks by pipeline and by ship or barge via deepwater docking facilities on the Houston Ship Channel. The refinery uses ships and barges, as well as the Colonial, Explorer, and other pipelines for distribution of its products. ◦ Three Rivers Refinery . Our Three Rivers Refinery is located in South Texas between Corpus Christi and San Antonio. It primarily processes sweet crude oils into gasoline, distillates, and aromatics. The refinery receives crude oil from West Texas and South Texas through third-party pipelines and trucks. The refinery distributes its refined petroleum products primarily through third-party pipelines. • Canada ◦ Quebec City Refinery . Our Quebec City Refinery is located in Lévis (near Quebec City). It processes sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, heating oil, and low-sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives crude oil by ship at its deepwater dock on the St. Lawrence River and by pipeline and ship (via the St. Lawrence River from a crude terminal in Montreal) from western Canada. The refinery transports its products through our pipeline from Quebec City to our terminal in Montreal and to various other terminals throughout eastern Canada by rail, ships, trucks, and third-party pipelines. • U.K. ◦ Pembroke Refinery . Our Pembroke Refinery is located in the County of Pembrokeshire in South West Wales. The refinery processes primarily sweet crude oils into gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, 8 Table of Contents heating oil, and low-sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives all of its feedstocks and delivers some of its products by ship and barge via deepwater docking facilities on the Milford Haven Waterway, with its remaining products being delivered through our Mainline pipeline system and by trucks. The refinery’s new cogeneration project was completed and commissioned in the third quarter of 2021. Feedstock Supply Our crude oil feedstocks are purchased through a combination of term and spot contracts. Our term supply contracts are at market-related prices and feedstocks are purchased directly or indirectly from various national oil companies as well as international and U.S. oil companies. The contracts generally permit the parties to amend the contracts (or terminate them), effective as of the next scheduled renewal date, by giving the other party proper notice within a prescribed period of time (e.g., 60 days, 6 months) before expiration of the current term. The majority of the crude oil purchased under our term contracts is purchased at the producer’s official stated price (i.e., the “market” price established by the seller for all purchasers) and not at a negotiated price specific to us. Marketing Overview We sell refined petroleum products in both the wholesale rack and bulk markets. These sales include refined petroleum products that are manufactured in our refining operations, as well as refined petroleum products purchased or received on exchange from third parties. Most of our refineries have access to marine transportation facilities, and they interconnect with common-carrier pipeline systems, allowing us to sell products in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Latin America, and other parts of the world. Wholesale Rack Sales We sell our gasoline and distillate products, as well as other products, such as asphalt, lube oils, and natural gas liquids (NGLs), on a wholesale basis through an extensive rack marketing network. The principal purchasers of our refined petroleum products from terminal truck racks are wholesalers, distributors, retailers, and truck-delivered end users throughout the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Ireland, and Latin America. The majority of our rack volume is sold through unbranded channels. The remainder is sold to distributors and dealers that are members of the Valero-brand family that operate branded sites in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Ireland, and Mexico. These sites are independently owned and are supplied by us under multi-year contracts. Approximately 7,000 outlets carry our brand names. For branded sites, products are sold under the Valero ® , Beacon ® , Diamond Shamrock ® , and Shamrock ® brands in the U.S., the Ultramar ® brand in Canada, the Texaco ® brand in the U.K. and Ireland, and the Valero ® brand in Mexico. Bulk Sales We also sell our gasoline and distillate products, as well as other products, such as asphalt, petrochemicals, and NGLs, through bulk sales channels in the U.S. and international markets. Our bulk sales are made to various oil companies, traders, and bulk end users, such as railroads, airlines, and utilities. Our bulk sales are transported primarily by pipelines, barges, and tankers to major tank farms and trading hubs. Logistics We own logistics assets (crude oil pipelines, refined petroleum product pipelines, terminals, tanks, marine docks, truck rack bays, and other assets) that support our refining operations. Demand for transportation fuels in Latin America is expected to continue to grow. To support our wholesale rack operations in Latin 9 Table of Contents America, we have invested in or grown our access to terminals and transloading facilities in Mexico and Peru. Our U.S. Gulf Coast refineries are well positioned to support export growth to Latin America and other countries around the world. Renewable Diesel Our Relationship with DGD DGD is a joint venture that we consolidate. We entered into the DGD joint venture in 2011 and it began operations in 2013. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding our accounting for DGD. We operate the DGD Plant and perform certain management functions for DGD as an independent contractor under an agreement with DGD. Renewable Diesel Plant The DGD Plant produces renewable diesel and is located next to our St. Charles Refinery in Norco, Louisiana. Renewable diesel is a low-carbon liquid transportation fuel that is interchangeable with petroleum-based diesel. Renewable diesel is produced from waste and renewable feedstocks using a pre-treatment process and an advanced hydroprocessing-isomerization process. The market value of the renewable diesel can vary based on regional policies, feedstock preferences, and CI scores. Waste feedstocks (predominantly animal fats, used cooking oils, and inedible distillers corn oil) are the preferred feedstocks due to their lower CI scores. While several other companies have made, or have announced interest in making, investments in renewable diesel projects, the DGD Plant is currently one of only a few operational facilities that has the capacity to process 100 percent waste and renewable feedstocks, and this feedstock flexibility currently provides a margin advantage. The DGD Plant receives waste and renewable feedstocks primarily by rail, trucks, ships, and barges owned by third parties. DGD is party to a raw material supply agreement with Darling under which Darling is obligated to offer to DGD a portion of its feedstock requirements at market pricing, but DGD is not obligated to purchase all or any part of its feedstock from Darling. Therefore, DGD pursues the most optimal feedstock supply available. DGD began an expansion of the DGD Plant in 2019 and operations commenced in the fourth quarter of 2021. This expansion increased the DGD Plant’s renewable diesel production capacity by 410 million gallons per year, bringing DGD’s total renewable diesel production capacity to 700 million gallons per year, and provided DGD with the ability to produce 30 million gallons per year of renewable naphtha. Renewable naphtha is used to produce renewable gasoline and renewable plastics. Additionally, in January 2021, DGD began construction of a new 470 million gallons per year renewable diesel plant located next to our Port Arthur Refinery in Port Arthur, Texas. This new plant is expected to commence operations in the first quarter of 2023, and is expected to increase DGD’s total renewable diesel and renewable naphtha production capacities to approximately 1.2 billion gallons per year and 50 million gallons per year, respectively. Marketing DGD sells renewable diesel under the Diamond Green Diesel® brand primarily to be blended with petroleum-based diesel and to end users for use in their operations. DGD sells renewable diesel domestically and into international markets, primarily Canada and Europe. Renewable diesel is distributed primarily by rail and ships owned by third parties. 10 Table of Contents Ethanol Ethanol Plants Our ethanol business began in 2009 with the purchase of our first ethanol plants. We have since grown the business by purchasing additional ethanol plants. Our 12 ethanol plants are located in the Mid-Continent region of the U.S., and they have a combined ethanol production capacity of approximately 1.6 billion gallons per year. Our ethanol plants are dry mill facilities that process corn to produce ethanol and various co-products, including livestock feed (dry distillers grains, or DDGs, and syrup), and inedible corn oil. The following table presents the locations of our ethanol plants, their annual production capacities for ethanol (in millions of gallons) and DDGs (in tons), and their annual corn processing capacities (in millions of bushels). ________________________ (a) These plants are expected to participate in the carbon capture and sequestration pipeline system discussed in “ Our Low-Carbon Projects” above. (b) This plant is able to produce USP-grade ethanol (a product that typically has a higher market value than fuel-grade ethanol), which reduces its ethanol production capacity to approximately 55 million gallons per year. USP stands for U.S. Pharmacopeia and is an organization that develops quality and safety standards for medicine, food, and dietary supplements. The foregoing table excludes data relating to our Jefferson, Wisconsin and Riga, Michigan ethanol plants, which ceased operations in 2021 and 2020, respectively. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding our accounting for these ceased operations. We source our corn supply from local farmers and commercial elevators. We publish on our website a corn bid for local farmers and cooperative dealers to facilitate corn supply transactions. Our plants receive corn primarily by rail and truck. Marketing We sell our ethanol under term and spot contracts in bulk markets in the U.S. We also export our ethanol into the global markets. We distribute our ethanol primarily by rail (using some railcars owned by us) and 11 Table of Contents third-party trucks, barges, and vessels. We sell DDGs primarily to animal feed customers in the U.S., Mexico, and Asia, which are transported primarily by third-party rail, trucks, and vessels. Seasonality Demand for gasoline, diesel, and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. The demand for renewable diesel has not significantly fluctuated by season. Ethanol is primarily blended into gasoline, and as a result, ethanol demand typically moves in line with the demand for gasoline. GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS We incorporate by reference into this Item the disclosures on government regulations, including environmental regulations, contained in the following sections of this report: • —OUR COMPREHENSIVE LIQUID FUELS STRATEGY— Regulations, Policies, and Standards Driving Low-Carbon Fuel Demand ”; • “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS—Legal, Governmental, and Regulatory Risks”; and • “ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS—ENVIRONMENTAL ENFORCEMENT MATTERS.” Capital Expenditures Attributable to Compliance with Government Regulations Compliance with government regulations, including environmental regulations, did not have a material effect on our capital expenditures in 2021, and we currently do not expect that compliance with these regulations will have material effects on our capital expenditures in 2022. Other Because our business is heavily regulated, our costs for compliance with government regulations are significant and can be material, especially costs associated with the Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Blending Programs disclosed in Notes 20 and 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated by reference into this item. 12 Table of Contents HUMAN CAPITAL We believe that our employees provide a competitive advantage for our success. We seek to foster a culture that supports diversity, equality, and inclusion, and we strive to provide a safe, healthy, and rewarding work environment for our employees with opportunities for professional growth and long-term financial stability. Headcount On December 31, 2021, we had 9,813 employees. These employees were located in the following countries: Of our total employees as of December 31, 2021, 1,764 were covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, and 9,794 were in permanent full-time positions. See also “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS—General Risk Factors —Our business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes by our employees, as well as new labor legislation issued by regulators .” Company Culture and Human Capital (People) Strategy Our company culture and our well-defined expectations of ethics and behavior guide the daily work of our employees and support our efforts to produce exceptional company results. The six values that define our culture are Safety, Accountability, Teamwork, Excellence, Do the Right Thing, and Caring . Our people strategy and programs are designed and implemented in support of our business and strategic objectives. In building and fostering great teams, we are guided by the following: • We strive to hire and promote top-talent employees with team-oriented work ethics and values; • Our pay, benefits, and support programs are designed to attract and retain excellent employees and to reward innovation, ingenuity, and excellence; • We seek to provide a best-in-class, diverse, and inclusive work environment built on a foundation of respect, accountability, and trust; • We promote a culture of learning intended to drive excellence at all levels of the organization and to foster career-long growth and development opportunities for employees; and • We continually assess employee performance, organizational structures, and succession plans to support operational excellence, efficiency, and effectiveness. Diversity, Equality, and Inclusion We believe that having a diverse workforce and inclusive teams provides strengths and advantages for our success, and our board of directors (Board) and management team strive to promote and improve 13 Table of Contents diversity, equality, and inclusion. Of our total employees as of December 31, 2021, approximately 30 percent of our global professional employees were female, 11 percent of our hourly employees were female, and 19 percent of total employees were female. Approximately 36 percent of our U.S. employees have self-identified as Hispanic or Latino, Black or African American, Asian, American Indian or Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or as two or more races. We strive to recruit and retain a diverse workforce and foster a culture of inclusion through various efforts, including targeted recruiting strategies aimed at improving our outreach to underrepresented groups and educational and training programs on diversity-related topics, such as objective hiring and the advantages of a diverse workforce. We are also committed to hiring and retaining veterans and reservists of the U.S. armed forces, who represent 12 percent of our U.S. workforce as of December 31, 2021. From our intern program to our Board, and at all levels between, we strive to build diverse and inclusive teams. Our intern program class of 2021 was the most diverse in the history of our program, with 39 percent being female and 34 percent representing a racial or ethnic minority, and more than half of the independent members of our Board represent diversity of gender or race/ethnicity. In furtherance of the Board’s diversity goals, the charter for the Nominating/Governance and Public Policy Committee of the Board was amended in 2021 to require that the initial list of candidates from which director nominees are chosen include, but need not be limited to, qualified diverse candidates (known as a “Rooney Rule” amendment). Safety We believe that safety and reliability are extremely important, not only for the protection of our employees and to the cultural values we aspire to as a company, but also for operational success, as a decrease in the number of employee safety events and process safety events should generally reduce unplanned shutdowns and increase the operational reliability of our refineries and plants. This, in turn, should also translate into fewer environmental incidents, a safer workplace, lower environmental impacts, and better community relations. We strive to improve safety and reliability by offering year-round safety training programs for our employees and contractors and by seeking to promote the same expectations and culture of safety among all of our workforce. We also seek to enhance our safety compliance by conducting safety audits, quality assurance visits, and comprehensive risk assessments. In assessing safety performance, we measure our annual total recordable incident rate (TRIR), which includes data with respect to our employees and contractors and is defined as the number of recordable injuries per 200,000 working hours. We also annually measure our Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate, which is a metric defined by the American Petroleum Institute that looks at process safety events per 200,000 total employee and contractor working hours. We use these measures and believe they are helpful in assessing our safety performance because they evaluate performance relative to the numbers of hours being worked. These metrics are also used by others in our industry, which allows for a more objective comparison of our performance. Our refinery employee and contractor TRIR for 2021 was 0.21 and 0.26, respectively, and our refinery Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate for 2021 was 0.05. As a result, 2021 was our best year so far in terms of safety performance. Compensation and Benefits We believe that it is important to provide our employees with competitive compensation and benefits. The benefits we offer to employees, depending on work location and eligibility status, include, among others, healthcare plans that are generally available to all employees, extended sick leave, new-parent leave, access to financial planning, programs to support dual-working parents at different stages of their careers, caregiver support networks (including an on-site child care center at our headquarters) and support for children and parents with disabilities, a company 401(k) matching program, various company-sponsored 14 Table of Contents pension plans, on-site employee wellness centers (also available to eligible dependents at our headquarters), tuition reimbursement programs, fitness center access or a stipend, and employee recognition programs. We believe that it is important to reward employee performance and have an annual bonus program that rewards achievements of various operational, financial, and strategic objectives. While such objectives include typical financial performance metrics, we believe ESG performance is also important and our annual bonus program rewards achievements in areas such as sustainability, diversity and inclusion, compliance, and corporate citizenship. Our compensation programs are designed with consideration of fair treatment and equal pay concepts, and are built upon a foundational philosophy of market-competitive and performance-based pay. Pay equity of our U.S. professional workforce is analyzed biennially by an independent consultant retained by us. Our most recent pay equity analysis, which was performed in 2020, reported that we had a gender pay equity ratio of 99 percent and a minority/nonminority pay equity ratio of 100 percent when considering factors that appropriately differentiate pay, such as time in role and pay grade. Training and Development We offer a comprehensive training and development program for our employees in subjects such as engineering and technical excellence, safety, maintenance and machinery/equipment repair, ethics, leadership, and employee performance. Our employee development initiatives include customized professional and technical curriculums, efforts to engage our leadership in the employee’s development process, and providing employee performance discussions. We offer a robust virtual training curriculum, which allows for greater availability and access for employees located across our many facilities and enables just-in-time training. Wellness We strive to promote the health and well-being of our employees and their families. Our Total Wellness Program serves as the umbrella program for all aspects of employee wellness and is the program through which many of the benefits referenced above are provided. The heart of our Total Wellness Program is the annual wellness assessment, which is intended to provide a detailed picture of an employee’s current health that may educate and inform health decisions by highlighting risk factors and providing information that can help save lives. Under our Total Wellness Program, educational sessions are also scheduled throughout the year on a variety of topics on health and finances. Our Total Wellness Program also supports the financial wellness of our employees through our financial benefit programs, depending on eligibility status and work location. We also offer a wide range of support to our employees through our confidential employee assistance program, helping employees and their families manage relationship challenges, counseling needs, and substance abuse and recovery, as well as self-care programs for various behavioral health challenges. 15 Table of Contents PROPERTIES Our principal properties are described in “OUR OPERATIONS” above and that information is incorporated by reference into this item. We believe that our properties are generally adequate for our operations and that our refineries and plants are maintained in a good state of repair. As of December 31, 2021, we were the lessee under a number of cancelable and noncancelable leases for certain properties. Our leases are discussed in Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated by reference into this item. Financial information about our properties is presented in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated by reference into this item. Our patents relating to our refining operations are not material to us as a whole. The trademarks and tradenames under which we conduct our branded wholesale business — Valero ® , Diamond Shamrock ® , Shamrock ® , Ultramar ® , Beacon ® , and Texaco ® — and other trademarks employed in the marketing of refined petroleum products are integral to our wholesale rack marketing operations. The trademark and tradename under which DGD sells its renewable diesel — Diamond Green Diesel ® — is integral to the sales of our Renewable Diesel segment. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our website address is www.valero.com. Information (including any presentation or report) on our website is not part of, and is not incorporated into, this report or any other report we may file with or furnish to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), whether made before or after the date of this annual report on Form 10-K and irrespective of any general incorporation language therein. Furthermore, references to our website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and other reports, as well as any amendments to those reports, filed with or furnished to the SEC are available on our website (under Investors > Financials > SEC Filings) free of charge, soon after we file or furnish such material. Additionally, on our website (under Investors > ESG), we post our corporate governance guidelines and other governance policies, codes of ethics, and the charters of the committees of our Board. In this same location, we also publish our 2021 Stewardship and Responsibility Report, which includes our 2021 SASB Report, our report disclosing certain U.S. workforce diversity statistics and data that corresponds to our 2020 U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Information (EEO-1) Report (filed in 2021), our 2025 and 2035 GHG emissions reductions and offset targets and other disclosures, and our 2021 TCFD Report and Scenario Analysis. These documents are available in print to any stockholder that makes a written request to Valero Energy Corporation, Attn: Secretary, P.O. Box 696000, San Antonio, Texas 78269-6000. Our ESG Overview is also available on our website (under Responsibility > ESG: Environmental, Social and Governance) and disclosures concerning our political engagement, climate lobbying, and trade associations are available on our website (under Investors > ESG). These reports and disclosures are not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K, are not deemed filed with the SEC, and are not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this annual report on Form 10-K and irrespective of any general incorporation language therein. Furthermore, references to our website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this report. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or liquidity, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock or debt securities. Risks Related to Our Business, Industry, and Operations Our financial results are affected by volatile margins, which are dependent upon factors beyond our control, including the price of crude oil, corn, and other feedstocks and the market price at which we can sell our products. Our financial results are affected by the relationship, or margin, between our product prices and the prices for crude oil, corn, and other feedstocks, which can vary based on global, regional, and local market conditions, as well as by type and class of product. Historically, refining and ethanol margins have been volatile, and we believe they will continue to be volatile in the future. We expect that the volume of renewable diesel produced by competitors will increase going forward, and as the market becomes more competitive, or if there are changes in the regulations, policies, and standards affecting the demand for low-carbon fuels, our Renewable Diesel segment may experience increased volatility in product margins. Our cost to acquire feedstocks and the price at which we can ultimately sell products depend upon several factors beyond our control, including regional and global supply of and demand for crude oil, corn, and other feedstocks, gasoline, diesel, other liquid transportation fuels (such as jet fuel, renewable diesel, and ethanol), and other products. These in turn depend on, among other things, the availability and quantity of imports, the production levels of U.S. and international suppliers, levels of product inventories, productivity and growth (or the lack thereof) of U.S. and global economies, U.S. relationships with foreign governments, political affairs, and the extent of governmental regulation. The ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to agree on and to maintain crude oil price and production controls has also had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on the market prices of crude oil and certain of our products. Additionally, the regulations, policies, and standards discussed under “ITEMS 1. and 2. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES—OUR COMPREHENSIVE LIQUID FUELS STRATEGY— Regulations, Policies, and Standards Driving Low-Carbon Fuel Demand ” have had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on the market prices of the feedstocks for, and products produced by, our low-carbon fuels businesses. Any adverse change in these regulations, policies, and standards, including the calculation of CI scores, or in our ability to obtain any approved fuel pathways, could have a material adverse effect on the margins we receive for our low-carbon products in certain markets. Some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. The longer-term effects of these and other factors on product margins are uncertain. We do not produce crude oil, corn, waste and renewable feedstocks, or other primary feedstocks and must purchase nearly all of the feedstocks we process. We generally purchase our feedstocks long before we process them and sell the resulting products. Price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the resulting products has had, and in the future could continue to have, a significant effect on our financial results. A decline in market prices could negatively impact the carrying value of our inventories. Economic turmoil, inflation, cybersecurity incidents, and political unrest or hostilities, including the threat of future terrorist attacks, could affect the economies of the U.S. and other countries. Lower levels of 17 Table of Contents economic activity could result in declines in energy consumption, including declines in the demand for and consumption of our products, which could cause our revenues and margins to decline and limit our future growth prospects. Refining, renewable diesel, and ethanol margins also can be significantly impacted by the addition of capacity through the expansion of existing facilities or the construction of new refineries or plants. Worldwide refining capacity expansions may result in refining production capacity exceeding refined petroleum product demand, which would have an adverse effect on refining margins. A significant portion of our profitability is derived from the ability to purchase and process crude oil feedstocks that historically have been cheaper than benchmark crude oils, such as Louisiana Light Sweet (LLS) and Brent crude oils. These crude oil feedstock differentials vary significantly depending on overall economic conditions and trends and conditions within the markets for crude oil and refined petroleum products . Previous declines in such differentials have had, and any future declines would again have, a negative impact on our results of operations. Technological and industry developments, and evolving investor and market sentiment regarding fossil fuels and GHG emissions, may decrease the demand for our products and could adversely affect our performance. A reduction in the demand for our products could result from a transition to alternative fuel vehicles by consumers, such as electric vehicles (EVs) and hybrid vehicles, whether as a result of technological or scientific advances, government mandates, or consumer or investor sentiment towards fossil fuels and GHG emissions. New or changing technologies may be developed that make alternative fuel vehicles more affordable or desirable, including improvements in battery and storage technology, increases to EV driving ranges, increased availability of charging stations and other necessary infrastructure, and increased inventory, which may cause some consumers to shift to alternative fuel vehicles, including vehicles that use alternative fuels other than the liquid fuels we produce. Additionally, there may be new entrants into the renewable fuels industry that could meet demand for lower-carbon transportation fuels and modes of transportation in a more efficient or less costly manner than our technologies and products, which could also have a material adverse effect on our low-carbon fuels businesses. For instance, several other companies have made, or announced interest in making, investments in renewable diesel projects. Should these projects develop, we would face competition from them for feedstocks and customers, which could strain margins on the products we sell and limit the growth and profitability of our low-carbon fuels businesses. It is not possible at this time to predict the ultimate form, timing, or extent of any such developments. However, a reduction in the demand for our products as a result of any of the foregoing events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Investor and market sentiment towards climate change, fossil fuels, GHG emissions, environmental justice, and other ESG matters could adversely affect our business, cost of capital, and the price of our common stock and debt securities. There have been efforts in recent years aimed at the investment community, including investment advisors, sovereign wealth funds, pension funds, universities, and other groups, to promote the divestment of securities of energy companies, as well as to pressure lenders and other financial services companies to limit or curtail activities with energy companies. As a result, some financial intermediaries, investors, and other capital markets participants have reduced or ceased lending to, or investing in, companies that operate in industries with higher perceived environmental exposure, such as the energy industry. 18 Table of Contents Additionally, pension funds at the U.S. state and municipal level, as well as in other countries and jurisdictions across the world, particularly in Europe, have announced similar plans. If these or similar divestment efforts are continued, the price of our common stock or debt securities, and our ability to access capital markets or to otherwise obtain new investment or financing, may be negatively impacted. Members of the investment community are also increasing their focus on ESG practices and disclosures, including those related to climate change, GHG emissions targets, business resilience under the assumptions of demand-constrained scenarios, and net-zero ambitions in the energy industry in particular, as well as diversity, equality, and inclusion initiatives, political activities, and governance standards among companies more generally. As a result, we may face negative publicity, increasing pressure regarding our ESG practices and disclosures, and demands for ESG-focused engagement from investors, stakeholders, and other interested parties . This could result in higher costs, disruption and diversion of management attention, an increased strain on our resources, and the implementation of certain ESG practices or disclosures that may present a heightened level of legal and regulatory risk, or that threaten our credibility with other investors and stakeholders. Investors, stakeholders, and other interested parties are also increasingly focusing on issues related to environmental justice . This may result in increased scrutiny, protests, and negative publicity with respect to our business and operations, and those of our counterparties, which could in turn result in the cancellation or delay of projects, the revocation or delay of permits, termination of contracts, lawsuits, regulatory action, and policy change that may adversely affect our business strategy, increase our costs, and adversely affect our reputation and financial performance. Additionally, members of the investment community may screen companies such as ours for ESG performance before investing in our common stock or debt securities, or lending to us. Credit rating agencies are also increasingly using ESG as a factor in their assessments, which could impact our cost of capital or access to financing. There has also been an acceleration in investor demand for ESG investing opportunities, and many institutional investors have committed to increasing the percentage of their portfolios that are allocated towards ESG-focused investments. As a result, there has been a proliferation of ESG-focused investment funds and market participants seeking ESG-oriented investment products. There has also been an increase in third-party providers of company ESG ratings, and more ESG-focused voting policies among proxy advisory firms, portfolio managers, and institutional investors. Some investors and stakeholders are also increasingly focused on pursuing strategies centered on ESG-related activism. If we are unable to meet the ESG standards or investment, lending, ratings, or voting criteria and policies set by these parties, we may lose investors, investors may allocate a portion of their capital away from us, we may become a target for ESG-focused activism, our cost of capital may increase, the price of our securities may be negatively impacted, and our reputation may also be negatively affected. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the related events and circumstances have had, and may continue to have, negative impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity and those of our customers, suppliers, and other counterparties. At the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020, governmental authorities around the world imposed restrictions, such as stay-at-home orders and other social distancing measures, to slow the spread of COVID-19. Many companies and individuals implemented similar efforts. These measures resulted in significant economic disruption globally as reduced economic activity negatively impacted many businesses, including ours. 19 Table of Contents During 2020, we experienced a decline in the demand for most of the liquid transportation fuels that we produce and sell, and thus also a decline in the market prices of those products, due to a decrease in the level of individual movement and travel resulting from the restrictions and general public health concerns. Some governmental authorities began lifting restrictions in the latter part of 2020 and this continued to varying degrees throughout 2021. These actions have contributed to increasing levels of individual movement and travel and a resulting increase in the demand for and market prices of our products. However, some governmental authorities continue to impose some level of restrictions due in part to new outbreaks, including those related to new variants of the virus (such as the delta and omicron variants). Additionally, the lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and variants of the virus continue to negatively impact the level of air travel, global supply chains, and the labor market. The distribution of vaccines beginning in late 2020 has helped decrease the rates and severity of infection and contributed to the lifting of many restrictions. The ongoing distribution of vaccines may result in the continued lifting of restrictions globally and may be seen as a key factor contributing to the ongoing restoration of public confidence, and thus also to stimulating and increasing global economic activity. However, the risk remains that vaccines may not be distributed widely on a timely basis, they may not be as effective against new variants of the virus, and/or the level of individuals’ willingness to receive a vaccine may not be as strong or as timely as needed. Additionally, some governmental authorities have announced requirements and mandates, including steep fines for noncompliance, on employers concerning workforce vaccination and testing. Many large companies across the world, independent of such government regulations, have also begun implementing vaccine requirements and mandates for their workforces, or as a prerequisite to providing customers certain goods and services in person. These requirements and mandates have evoked mixed reactions and have created additional challenges and costs, both administratively and operationally, for employers (including us and our counterparties) and their workforces. Developments with respect to such requirements and mandates are evolving at a rapid pace and the ultimate impact thereof remains uncertain. The ultimate outcome of the uncertainties and other unforeseen effects of the COVID-19 pandemic could result in many adverse consequences including, but not limited to, reduced availability of critical staff necessary to maintain operations, disruption or delays to supply chains for critical equipment or feedstock, inflation, reduced economic activity and individual movement that negatively impact demand for our products, and increased administrative, compliance, and operational costs. The ultimate extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic will depend largely on future developments, particularly within the geographic areas where we operate, and the related impact on overall economic activity, all of which are currently unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty at this time. However, the adverse impacts of the economic effects from the COVID-19 pandemic on our business have been and may continue to be significant. The adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity have also had, and may continue to have, the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in the other risk factors in this section. Such risk factors may be amended or supplemented by subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other reports and documents we file with the SEC after the date of this annual report on Form 10-K. Our operations depend on natural gas and electricity, and such dependency could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Our operations depend on the use of natural gas and electricity. We consume a significant volume of natural gas and a significant amount of electricity to operate our refineries and plants, and natural gas and 20 Table of Contents electricity prices represent a large cost to our operations. We also purchase other commodities whose price may vary depending on the price of natural gas or electricity. Prices for both natural gas and electricity can be volatile and therefore represent ongoing challenges to our operating results. Additionally, the availability of natural gas and electricity can be affected by weather (such as Winter Storm Uri in 2021), pipeline interruptions, grid outages, and logistics disruptions. As electrification continues to grow, or if there are increased restrictions or costs imposed on the ability of electric utilities to utilize certain energy sources, there will likely be increased strains on, and risk to the integrity and resilience of, electrical grids, and natural gas and electricity supplies around the world, which could negatively affect the cost, reliability, and availability of our natural gas and electricity supplies. Additionally, increased governmental regulations and public opposition to pipeline and electricity generation and transmission projects may result in the underinvestment in, or unavailability of, the logistics assets and infrastructure necessary to obtain natural gas feedstocks and electricity in a reliable and cost-efficient manner. Although we actively manage these costs through contracting and hedging our exposure to price volatility when appropriate, and by pursuing projects that reduce our reliance on third parties and fortify the resilience of our assets, increases in prices for natural gas and electricity, or disruptions to sources of natural gas and electricity supply, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Disruption of our ability to obtain crude oil, waste and renewable feedstocks, corn, and other feedstocks could adversely affect our operations. A significant portion of our refining feedstock requirements is satisfied through supplies originating in the Middle East, Africa, Europe, Asia, North America, and South America. We are, therefore, subject to the political, geographic, and economic risks attendant to doing business with suppliers located in, and supplies originating from, these areas. If one or more of our supply contracts were terminated, or if political events disrupt our traditional feedstock supply, we believe that adequate alternative supplies would be available, but it is possible that we would be unable to find alternative sources of supply. Our refineries and plants without access to waterborne deliveries or offtake must rely on rail, pipeline, or ground transportation and thus may be more susceptible to such risks. If we are unable to obtain adequate volumes or are able to obtain such volumes only at unfavorable prices, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity could be materially adversely affected, including from reduced sales volumes of products or reduced margins as a result of higher costs. Additionally, the U.S. government can prevent or restrict us from doing business in or with other countries. For instance, U.S. sanctions with respect to Iran and Venezuela limit the ability of U.S. companies to engage in oil transactions involving these countries, and currently there is a possibility of increased sanctions against Russia as well as potential responsive countermeasures. These restrictions, and those of other governments, may limit our access to business opportunities in various countries. Actions by the U.S. and other countries have affected our operations in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Although Darling, the other joint venture member in DGD, supplies some of DGD’s feedstock at competitive pricing, DGD must still secure a significant amount of its feedstock requirements from other sources. Should Darling’s supply be disrupted or should supply from other sources become limited or only available at unfavorable terms, DGD could be required to develop alternate sources of supply, and it could be required to increase its utilization of feedstocks that produce lower margin products. To the extent the volume of renewable diesel produced by competitors begins to increase, the competition for feedstocks will likely increase, which could place downward pressure on the margins associated with the 21 Table of Contents products produced by DGD. Should DGD’s feedstock supply be disrupted, such an event could adversely impact its and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Our Ethanol segment relies on corn sourced from local farmers and commercial elevators in the Mid-Continent region of the U.S. As a result, the feedstock supply of our Ethanol segment is acutely exposed to the effects that weather and other environmental events occurring in that region can have on the amount or timing of crop production. Crop production can also be affected by governmental policies (such as farming subsidies) and by market factors (such as changes in fertilizer prices). Any reduction or delay in crop production from these or similar events could reduce and disrupt the supply of, or otherwise increase our costs to obtain, feedstocks for our Ethanol segment. We are subject to risks arising from our operations outside the U.S. and generally to worldwide political and economic developments. We operate and sell some of our products outside of the U.S., particularly in Canada, Europe, Mexico, Peru, and Latin American countries other than Mexico and Peru. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity could be negatively impacted by disruptions in any of these markets, including due to expropriation or impoundment of assets, failure of foreign governments and state-owned entities to honor their contracts, property disputes, economic instability, restrictions on the transfer of funds, duties and tariffs, transportation delays, import and export controls, labor unrest, security issues involving key personnel and governmental decisions, investigations, regulations, issuances or revocations of permits and other authorizations, and changing regulatory and political environments. The occurrence of any such event could result in commercial restrictions, delay or cancellation of projects, increased costs, and otherwise reduce our profitability in the U.S. and abroad. We are also required to comply with U.S. and international laws and regulations. Actual or alleged violations of these laws could disrupt our business, cause us to incur significant legal expenses, and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We are subject to interruptions and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and other feedstocks and the products that we manufacture. We use the services of third parties to transport feedstocks to our refineries and plants and to transport the products we manufacture to market. If we experience prolonged interruptions of supply or increases in costs to deliver our products to market, or if the ability of the pipelines, vessels, trucks, or railroads to transport feedstocks or products is disrupted because of weather events, cybersecurity incidents, accidents, derailments, collisions, fires, explosions, or governmental or third-party actions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Competitors that produce their own supply of crude oil feedstocks, own their own retail sites, have greater financial resources, or provide alternative energy sources may have a competitive advantage. The refining and marketing industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined petroleum product markets. We compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks, and for third-party retail outlets for our refined petroleum products. We do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks and we do not have a company-owned retail network. Many of our competitors, however, obtain a significant portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and some have extensive networks of retail sites. Such competitors are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and they may be better 22 Table of Contents positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. Some of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have. Such competitors may have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our industry. In addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial, and individual consumers. A significant interruption in one or more of our refineries or renewable diesel or ethanol plants could adversely affect our business. Our refineries, renewable diesel plant, and ethanol plants are our principal operating assets. As a result, our operations could be subject to significant interruption if one or more of our refineries or plants were to experience a major accident or mechanical failure, be damaged by severe weather or natural disasters (such as hurricanes) or man-made disasters (such as cybersecurity incidents or acts of terrorism), or otherwise be forced to shut down. If any refinery or plant were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the refinery or plant could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs. Significant interruptions in our refining, renewable diesel, or ethanol systems could also lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil, waste and renewable feedstocks, corn, and many of our products. Large capital projects can take many years to complete, and the political and regulatory environments or other market conditions may change or deteriorate over time, negatively impacting project returns. We may engage in capital projects based on the forecasted project economics, political and regulatory environments, and the expected return on the capital to be employed in the project. Large-scale projects take many years to complete, during which time the political and regulatory environment or other market conditions may change from our forecast. As a result, we may not fully realize our expected returns, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Our investments in joint ventures and other entities decrease our ability to manage risk. We conduct some of our operations through joint ventures in which we may share control over certain economic, legal, and business interests with other joint venture members. We also conduct some of our operations through entities in which we have no equity ownership interest, such as some of the consolidated variable interest entities (VIEs), as described in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The other joint venture members and the third-party equity holders of the VIEs may have economic, business, or legal interests, opportunities, or goals that are inconsistent with or different from our opportunities, goals, and interests, or may have different liquidity needs or financial condition characteristics than our own, be subject to different legal or contractual obligations than we are, or be unable to meet their obligations. For instance, while we operate the DGD Plant and perform certain day-to-day operating and management functions for DGD as an independent contractor, we do not have full control of every aspect of DGD’s business and certain significant decisions concerning DGD, including, among others, the acquisition or disposition of assets above a certain value threshold, making certain changes to DGD’s business plan, raising debt or equity capital, DGD’s distribution policy, and entering into particular transactions, which also require certain approvals from Darling. Additionally, although we consolidate certain VIEs, we do not have full control of every aspect of these VIEs, or the actions taken by their third-party equity holders, some of which may affect our business, legal position, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Failure by us, an entity in which we have a joint venture interest, or the VIEs to adequately manage the risks associated with such entities, and any differences in views among us and other joint venture members or the third-party equity holders in the VIEs, could 23 Table of Contents prevent or delay actions that are in the best interest of us, the joint venture, or the VIE, and could have a material adverse effect on our, or the applicable joint venture’s or VIE’s, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We may incur losses and additional costs as a result of our forward-contract activities and derivative transactions. We currently use commodity derivative instruments, and we expect to continue their use in the future. If the instruments we use to hedge our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur losses. In addition, we may be required to incur additional costs in connection with future regulation of derivative instruments to the extent such future regulation is applicable to us. Legal, Governmental, and Regulatory Risks Legal, regulatory, and political matters and developments regarding climate change, GHG or other air emissions, fuel efficiency, or the environment may decrease the demand for our petroleum-based products and could adversely affect our performance. Many state, provincial, and national governments across the world have imposed, and may impose in the future, increases in fuel economy standards, low-carbon fuel standards, restrictions on vehicles using liquid fuel, and other policies or regulations (such as tariffs, tax incentives, or subsidies) aimed at steering the public towards less petroleum-dependent modes of transportation, which could reduce demand for our liquid fuels. For example, in September 2020, the governor of California issued an executive order seeking to require that sales of all new passenger vehicles be zero-emission by 2035 and medium to heavy-duty vehicles be zero-emission by 2045, where feasible. The executive order also requires state agencies to build out sufficient electric vehicle charging infrastructure. Other U.S. and governmental authorities across the world, such as the U.K. and Quebec, have also announced similar plans and/or restrictions with respect to the sale of new internal combustion-engine vehicles. The U.S. federal government under the current presidential administration has also been aggressive in the scope, magnitude, and number of actions it has taken to regulate climate change, and steer the public towards less petroleum-dependent modes of transportation. For instance, shortly after taking office, the current administration issued a series of executive orders designed to address climate change, as well as an executive order requiring agencies to review environmental actions taken by the previous administration. Additionally, in April 2021, the EPA issued a notice of proposed rulemaking seeking to reinstate California’s prior authority to set vehicle GHG emissions standards, including standards that exceed or conflict with U.S. federal standards. In a parallel action finalized in December 2021, the National Highway Traffic Administration (NHTSA) withdrew its previous regulatory determination in the Safer Affordable Fuel-Efficient Vehicles Rule that California is preempted under the Energy Policy and Conservation Act from regulating fuel economy. Such authority could allow California to impose more stringent requirements on the use of our liquid fuels, such as EV mandates, and could potentially revive other states’ authority to adopt standards similar to California’s standards. If the California waiver is reinstated and California adopts GHG emissions standards different than U.S. federal standards, then, regardless of whether other U.S. states adopt similar standards, the size of the California auto market and the difficulty and expense of designing, manufacturing, and selling alternative vehicle fleets to comply with different standards, such California standards, could become the de facto national standard for vehicles sold for use in the U.S. Further, in August 2021, NHTSA released a new proposed rule that would increase the current corporate average fuel economy (CAFE) and carbon dioxide standards for certain passenger cars and light trucks under the previously adopted Safer Affordable Fuel-Efficient 24 Table of Contents Vehicles Rule. Higher CAFE standards and fuel efficiency standards may reduce demand for our petroleum-based products. In December 2021, the current U.S. presidential administration issued an executive order that directs the U.S. federal government to use its scale and procurement power to achieve a number of aspirational net-zero emissions goals, including, among others, 100 percent zero-emission vehicle acquisitions by 2035 and 100 percent zero-emission light-duty vehicle acquisitions by 2027. On December 30, 2021, the EPA finalized its “Revised 2023 and Later Model Year Light-Duty Vehicle Greenhouse Gas Emission Standards,” in which the EPA states that its final rule is projected to reduce gasoline consumption by more than 360 billion gallons by 2050, reaching a 15 percent reduction in annual U.S. gasoline consumption in 2050. Moreover, in 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the 1992 United Nations (U.N.) Framework Convention on Climate Change, which establishes a binding set of emission targets for GHGs, became binding on all countries that had ratified it. In 2015, the U.N. Climate Change Conference in Paris resulted in the creation of the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement requires countries to review and “represent a progression” in their nationally determined contributions, which set emissions reduction goals every five years beginning in 2020. The terms of the Paris Agreement and the executive orders discussed above are expected to result in additional regulations or changes to existing regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business in the U.S. and the U.K., and that of our customers. In addition, incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources in many of the countries where we currently operate, or may operate in the future, could have a negative impact on our business across the world. These and other legal, regulatory, political, and international accord matters and developments regarding climate change, GHG or other air emissions, fuel efficiency, or the environment, including executive orders that mandate or encourage the use of alternative energy sources or discourage or ban the use of internal combustion engines, may increase consumer preferences for, and adoption of, alternative fuel vehicles and decrease demand for our liquid fuels, although they may also increase demand for our low-carbon fuels. These legal, regulatory, and political developments, as well as other similarly focused laws and regulations, such as, among others, the California and Quebec cap-and-trade programs, the U.K. Emissions Trading Scheme, the U.K. Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation, and CARB’s Control Measure for Ocean-Going Vessels At Berth Rule, could also result in increased costs or capital expenditures to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities, and (iii) administer and manage any emissions or blending programs, including acquiring emission credits, allowances, or allotments. Many of these legal, regulatory, political, and international accord matters and developments are subject to considerable uncertainty due to a number of factors, including technological and economic feasibility, legal challenges, and potential changes in law, regulation, or policy, and it is not possible at this time to predict the ultimate effects of these matters and developments on us. However, a reduction in the demand for our products or an increase in costs or capital expenditures as a result of any of the foregoing events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Compliance with, or developments concerning, the Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Blending Programs, and other regulations, policies, and standards impacting the demand for low-carbon fuels could adversely affect our performance. As described under “ITEMS 1. and 2. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES—OUR COMPREHENSIVE LIQUID FUELS STRATEGY— Regulations, Policies, and Standards Driving Low-Carbon Fuel Demand ,” governments across the world have issued, or are considering issuing, low-carbon fuel regulations, policies, and standards to help reduce GHG emissions and increase the percentage of low- 25 Table of Contents carbon fuels in the transportation fuel mix. We strategically market our low-carbon fuels based on regional policies, feedstock preferences, CI scores, and our ability to obtain fuel pathways. A significant portion of our low-carbon fuels are sold in California, Canada, and Europe. Concerning the RFS, on December 7, 2021, the EPA released a proposed rule to retroactively revise the 2020 RVOs, set overdue RVOs for 2021 and 2022, and propose certain other changes to the RFS including, among others, changes to registration, reporting, recordkeeping, and other requirements. Separately, the EPA proposed to deny more than 60 small refinery exemption (SRE) petitions. We are exposed to the volatility in the market price of RINs, LCFS credits, and other credits, as described in Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We cannot predict the future prices of RINs, LCFS credits, or other credits. Prices for RINs, LCFS credits, and other credits are dependent upon a variety of factors, including, as applicable, EPA regulations, regulations of other countries and jurisdictions, the availability of RINs, LCFS credits, and other credits for purchase, transportation fuel production levels, which can vary significantly each quarter, approved CI pathways, and CI scores. The ultimate outcome of the recently proposed RVOs, RFS changes, and SRE denials may also affect prices. If an insufficient number of RINs, LCFS credits, or other credits is available for purchase, if we have to pay significantly higher prices for them, or if we are otherwise unable to meet the EPA’s RFS mandates or our other obligations under the Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Blending Programs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity could be adversely affected. Furthermore, to the extent fewer SRE waivers are granted in the future or RVO obligations are reallocated or increased, the demand for and the price of RINs may also increase, and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity could be adversely affected. In addition to the RFS and LCFS, we operate in multiple jurisdictions that have issued, or are considering issuing, similar low-carbon fuel regulations, policies, and standards. The RFS, LCFS, and similar U.S. state and international low-carbon fuel regulations, policies, and standards are extremely complex, often have different or conflicting requirements or methodologies, and are frequently evolving, requiring us to periodically update our systems and controls to maintain compliance and monitoring, which could require significant expenditures, and presents an increased risk of administrative error. Our low-carbon fuels businesses could be materially and adversely affected if (i) these regulations, policies, and standards are adversely changed, not enforced, or discontinued, (ii) the benefits therefrom are reduced (such as the 45Q tax credit, the blender’s tax credit, and other incentives), (iii) any of the products we produce are deemed not to qualify for compliance therewith, or (iv) we are unable to satisfy or maintain any approved pathways. Such changes could also negatively impact the economic assumptions and projections with respect to many of our low-carbon projects and could have a material adverse impact on the timing of completion, project returns, and other outcomes with respect to such projects. Compliance with and changes in environmental, health, and safety laws could adversely affect our performance. Our operations are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, pollution prevention measures, GHG emissions, and characteristics and composition of fuels, including gasoline and diesel. Certain of these laws and regulations could impose obligations to conduct assessment or remediation efforts at our refineries and plants, as well as at formerly owned properties or third-party sites where we have taken wastes for disposal or where our wastes may have migrated. The principal environmental risks associated with our operations are emissions into the air, handling of waste, and releases into the soil, surface water, or groundwater. Environmental laws and regulations also may impose liability on us for the 26 Table of Contents conduct of third parties or for actions that complied with applicable requirements when taken, regardless of negligence or fault. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be fined, sanctioned, or enjoined. Because environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations are becoming more stringent and new environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed, the level of expenditures required for environmental matters could increase in the future. Current and future legislative action and regulatory initiatives could result in increased difficulty in obtaining permits, changes to operating permits, material changes in operations, increased capital expenditures and operating costs, increased costs of the products we sell, and decreased demand for our products that cannot be assessed with certainty at this time. We may be required to make expenditures to modify operations, discontinue use of certain process units or certain chemicals, or install pollution control equipment that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We may also face liability for personal injury, property damage, natural resource damage, environmental justice impacts, or clean-up costs due to alleged contamination and/or exposure to chemicals or other regulated materials, such as various perfluorinated compounds, per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances, benzene, MTBE, and petroleum hydrocarbons, at or from our current and formerly owned facilities. Such liability or expenditures could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Climate change and “greenwashing” litigation could adversely affect our performance. We could face increased climate‐related litigation with respect to our operations, disclosures, or products. Governments and private parties across the world, such as California, Vermont, and New York in the U.S., and the Netherlands in Europe, have filed lawsuits or initiated regulatory action against energy companies. The lawsuits allege damages as a result of climate change, and the plaintiffs seek damages and/or abatement under various tort and other theories. Similar lawsuits may be filed in other jurisdictions. Additionally, governments and private parties are also increasingly filing lawsuits or initiating regulatory action based on allegations that certain public statements regarding ESG-related matters and practices by companies are false and misleading “greenwashing” that violate deceptive trade practices and consumer protection statutes. Similar issues can also arise relating to aspirational statements such as net-zero or carbon neutrality targets that are made without an adequate basis to support such statements. While we are currently not a party to any of these lawsuits, they present a high degree of uncertainty regarding the extent to which energy companies face an increased risk of liability stemming from climate change or ESG disclosures and practices. Any attempt by the U.S. government to withdraw from, re-enter, or materially modify any existing international trade agreements, or enter into any new international trade agreements in the future, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The previous U.S. presidential administration questioned certain existing and proposed trade agreements. For example, the administration withdrew the U.S. from the Trans-Pacific Partnership. In addition, the previous administration implemented and proposed various trade tariffs, which resulted in foreign governments responding with tariffs on U.S. goods. Changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory, and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development, and investment could adversely affect our business. For example, the imposition of tariffs or other international trade barriers could affect our ability to obtain feedstocks from international sources, increase our costs, and reduce the competitiveness of our products. Although there is currently uncertainty around the likelihood, timing, and details of many such actions, if the current U.S. administration takes 27 Table of Contents action to withdraw from, re-enter, or materially modify any existing international trade agreements, or to enter into any new international trade agreements in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity could be adversely affected. Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance. We are subject to extensive tax liabilities imposed by multiple jurisdictions, including income taxes, indirect taxes (excise/duty, sales/use, gross receipts, and value-added taxes (VAT)), payroll taxes, franchise taxes, withholding taxes, and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed that could result in increased expenditures for tax liabilities in the future. Many of these liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the respective taxing authorities. Although we believe we have used reasonable interpretations and assumptions in calculating our tax liabilities, the final determination of these tax audits and any related proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Any adverse outcome of any of such tax audits or related proceedings could result in unforeseen tax-related liabilities that may, individually or in the aggregate, materially affect our cash tax liabilities, and, as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate may change significantly as a result of political or economic factors beyond our control. It is also possible that future changes to tax laws (including tax treaties with any of the jurisdictions in which we operate) could impact our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date. Additionally, our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws (including tax treaties) or their interpretations. The phase-out or replacement of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) with an alternative reference rate may adversely affect financial markets and the interest rates we pay on any floating-rate debt. On March 5, 2021, the Financial Conduct Authority in the U.K. issued an announcement on the future cessation or loss of representativeness of LIBOR benchmark settings currently published by ICE Benchmark Administration. That announcement confirmed that LIBOR would either cease to be provided by any administrator or would no longer be representative after December 31, 2021 for all non-U.S. dollar LIBOR reference rates and for certain short-term U.S. dollar LIBOR reference rates, and after June 30, 2023 for other reference rates. In the future, we may need to renegotiate our financial agreements, including, but not limited to, our $4.0 billion revolving credit facility, or incur other indebtedness, and we may be required to select and use a replacement reference rate for such debt. Such replacement reference rate could include the secured overnight financing rate, also known as SOFR, published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The phase-out of LIBOR or the use of any replacement reference rate may negatively impact the terms of, and our ability to refinance, such indebtedness and could also adversely affect the interest rate payable on, and the liquidity and value of, such indebtedness. In addition, the overall financial market and the ability to raise future indebtedness in a cost-effective manner may be disrupted as a result of the phase-out or replacement of LIBOR. Disruption in the financial market could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Cyber Security and Privacy Related Risks A significant interruption related to our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. Our information technology systems and network infrastructure may be subject to unauthorized access or attack, including ransomware attacks, which could result in (i) a loss of intellectual property, proprietary 28 Table of Contents information, or employee, customer or vendor data; (ii) public disclosure of sensitive information; (iii) increased costs to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cybersecurity events, such as deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third-party experts and consultants; (iv) systems interruption; (v) disruption of our business operations; (vi) remediation costs for repairs of system damage; (vii) reputational damage that adversely affects customer or investor confidence; and (viii) damage to our competitiveness, the price of our common stock or debt securities, and long-term stockholder value. A breach could also originate from or compromise our customers’, vendors’, or other third-party networks outside of our control that could impact our business and operations, as occurred with the Colonial Pipeline cybersecurity incident in May 2021. A breach may also result in legal claims or proceedings against us by our stockholders, employees, customers, vendors, and governmental authorities (U.S. and international). There can be no assurance that our infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans can prevent technology systems breaches, cyber and ransomware attacks, or systems failures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Furthermore, the continuing and evolving threat of cybersecurity incidents has resulted in increased regulatory focus on prevention, such as the directive issued by the U.S. Transportation Security Administration following the Colonial Pipeline cybersecurity incident. To the extent we experience increased regulatory requirements, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to comply therewith or incur fines for noncompliance. Increasing regulatory focus on data privacy and security issues and expanding or changing laws could expose us to increased liability, subject us to lawsuits, investigations, and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business. Along with our own data and information in the normal course of our business, we collect and retain certain data that is subject to specific laws and regulations. The transfer and use of this data both domestically and across international borders is becoming increasingly complex. This data is subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, international, provincial, and local levels in many areas of our business, including data privacy and security laws such as the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), the U.K. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and Quebec’s recently enacted Bill 64 (Bill 64), which amends the province’s main statute regulating the collection of information. The CCPA, which came into effect on January 1, 2020, gives California residents specific rights in relation to their personal information, requires that companies take certain actions, including notifications for security incidents, and may apply to activities regarding personal information that is collected by us, directly or indirectly, from California residents. The recently adopted California Privacy Rights Act also expands the compliance requirements of, and authority to enforce, the CCPA. As the interpretation and enforcement of the CCPA continues to evolve, there may be a range of new compliance obligations and scrutiny, with the possibility for significant financial penalties for noncompliance that may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The GDPR applies to activities related to personal data that may be conducted by us, directly or indirectly through vendors and subcontractors, from an establishment in the U.K. The future of the GDPR remains in flux for political reasons. As interpretations and enforcement of the GDPR evolve, they could create a range of new compliance obligations, which could cause us to incur additional costs. Those costs could become even more severe if interpretations or enforcement of the GDPR deviate in the future. In both cases, failure to comply could result in significant penalties of up to a maximum of 4 percent of our global turnover that may materially adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Our business and operations may also be impacted if the U.K. Parliament approves new standard contractual clauses (SCCs) for the international transfer of personal data outside of 29 Table of Contents the U.K. If adopted on March 21, 2022, the new SCCs may apply to our existing contracts involving the international transfer of personal data that is restricted under the GDPR, requiring us to renegotiate any nonconforming contracts by September 21, 2022, which could be expensive and could divert senior management’s attention from our business. Bill 64, which was adopted in September 2021, is intended to modify the obligations of public bodies and private sector enterprises by modernizing the framework applicable to the protection of personal information. Most provisions of Bill 64 will take effect over the course of the next three years, with some provisions taking effect in September 2022. Bill 64 largely focuses on increasing the number of individual privacy rights and imposes a range of compliance and procedural obligations, with the possibility for significant penalties and private rights of action for noncompliance that may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The CCPA, the GDPR, and Bill 64, as well as other data privacy laws that may become applicable to us, pose increasingly complex compliance challenges, as well as monitoring and control obligations, that could raise our costs, and place increased demand on company resources. Any failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations, including as a result of a security or privacy breach, could result in significant penalties and liabilities for us. Further, if we acquire a company that has violated or is not in compliance with these laws and regulations, we may incur significant liabilities and penalties as a result. General Risk Factors Uncertainty and illiquidity in credit and capital markets can impair our ability to obtain credit and financing on acceptable terms, and can adversely affect the financial strength of our business counterparties. Our ability to obtain credit and capital depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors that we do not control. Our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing may be adversely impacted by unstable or illiquid market conditions. Protracted uncertainty and illiquidity in these markets also could have an adverse impact on our lenders, commodity hedging counterparties, or our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. In addition, decreased returns on pension fund assets may also materially increase our pension funding requirements. Our access to credit and capital markets also depends on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. We currently maintain investment-grade ratings by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, Moody’s Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings on our senior unsecured debt. Ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold our securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. We cannot provide assurance that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. Specifically, if rating agencies were to downgrade our long-term rating, particularly below investment grade, our borrowing costs may increase, which could adversely affect our ability to attract potential investors and our funding sources could decrease. In addition, we may not be able to obtain favorable credit terms from our suppliers or they may require us to provide collateral, letters of credit, or other forms of security, which would increase our operating costs. As a result, a downgrade below investment grade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. 30 Table of Contents From time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we were unable to obtain necessary funds from financing activities. From time to time, we may need to supplement our cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities. We have existing revolving credit facilities, committed letter of credit facilities, and an accounts receivable sales facility intended to provide us with available financing to meet our ongoing cash needs. In addition, we rely on the counterparties to our derivative instruments to fund their obligations under such arrangements. Uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets may materially impact the ability of the participating financial institutions and other counterparties to fund their commitments to us under our various financing facilities or our derivative instruments, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Severe weather events may have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. Severe weather events, such as storms, hurricanes, droughts, or floods, could have an adverse effect on our operations and could increase our costs. For instance, severe weather events can have an impact on crops production and reduce the supply of, or increase our costs to obtain, feedstocks for our Ethanol and Renewable Diesel segments. If climate changes result in more intense or frequent severe weather events, the physical and disruptive effects could have a material adverse impact on our operations and assets. Our business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes by our employees, as well as new labor legislation issued by regulators. Certain employees at five of our U.S. refineries, as well as at each of our Canadian and U.K. refineries, are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, which generally have unique and independent expiration dates. To the extent we are in negotiations for labor agreements expiring in the future, there is no assurance an agreement will be reached without a strike, work stoppage, or other labor action. Any prolonged strike, work stoppage, or other labor action at our facilities or at facilities owned or operated by third parties that support our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. In addition, future U.S. federal, state, or international labor legislation could result in labor shortages and higher costs, especially during critical maintenance periods. We are subject to operational risks and our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all potential losses arising from operating hazards. Failure to obtain or maintain adequate insurance coverage could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Our operations are subject to various hazards common to the industry, including explosions, fires, toxic emissions, maritime hazards, and natural catastrophes. As protection against these hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses and liabilities. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we need, or at acceptable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums, and deductibles for certain insurance policies could increase substantially. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, coverage for hurricane damage is very limited, and coverage for terrorism risks includes very broad exclusions. If we incur a significant loss or liability for which we are not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Our insurance program includes a number of insurance carriers. Significant disruptions in financial markets could lead to a deterioration in the financial condition of many financial institutions, including insurance companies. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain the full amount of our insurance coverage for insured events. 31 Table of Contents