" and elsewhere in this report. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report may not occur as contemplated, and our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied by the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this report are made as of the date hereof, based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General lululemon athletica inc. is a designer, distributor, and retailer of healthy lifestyle inspired athletic apparel. Since our inception, we have developed a distinctive corporate culture, and we have a mission to produce products which create transformational experiences for people to live happy, healthy, fun lives. We promote a set of core values in our business which include taking personal responsibility, nurturing entrepreneurial spirit, acting with honesty and courage, valuing connection, and choosing to have fun. These core values attract passionate and motivated employees who are driven to succeed and share our purpose of "elevating the world from mediocrity to greatness." In this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("10-K" or "Report") for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2017 ("fiscal 2016 "), lululemon athletica inc. (together with its subsidiaries) is referred to as "lululemon," "the Company," "we," "us" or "our." Our Products Our healthy lifestyle inspired athletic apparel is marketed under the lululemon and ivivva brand names. We offer a comprehensive line of apparel and accessories for women, men and female youth. Our apparel assortment includes items such as pants, shorts, tops, and jackets designed for healthy lifestyle and athletic activities such as yoga, running, training, most other sweaty pursuits, and athletic wear for female youth. We also offer fitness-related accessories, including an array of items such as bags, socks, underwear, yoga mats, and water bottles. Although we benefit from the growing number of people that participate in yoga, we believe the percentage of our products sold for other activities will continue to increase as we broaden our product range. Our design team continues to source and develop technically advanced fabrics and innovative functional features that we believe will help advance our product lines and differentiate us from the competition. Our Market Our primary target customer is a sophisticated and educated woman who understands the importance of an active, healthy lifestyle. She is increasingly tasked with the dual responsibilities of career and family and is constantly challenged to balance her work, life, and health. We believe she pursues exercise to achieve physical fitness and inner peace. As women have continued to embrace a variety of fitness and athletic activities, including yoga, we believe we have been able to effectively address their unique fit and performance needs by incorporating style along with comfort and functionality into our products through our vertical retail strategy. Although we were founded to address the unique needs of women, we are also successfully designing products for men and female youth who appreciate the technical rigor and premium quality of our products. In addition, we believe consumer purchase decisions are driven by both an actual need for functional products and a desire to live a particular lifestyle. As such, 1 Table of Contents we believe the credibility and authenticity of our brand expands our potential market beyond just athletes to those who desire to lead an active, healthy, and balanced life. Our Segments We primarily conduct our business through two channels: company-operated stores and direct to consumer. We also generate net revenue from our outlets, showrooms, sales from temporary locations, sales to wholesale accounts, warehouse sales, and license and supply arrangements. The net revenue we generate from these sources is combined in our other segment. As of January 29, 2017 , we operated 406 stores located in the United States, Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, New Zealand, China, Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, Germany, Puerto Rico and Switzerland. We believe our vertical retail strategy allows us to interact more directly with, and gain feedback from, our customers, whom we call guests, while providing us with greater control of our brand. Our direct to consumer segment includes the net revenue which we generate from our lululemon and ivivva e-commerce websites, www.lululemon.com and www.ivivva.com , and other country and region specific websites. Segment information is included in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report. Company-Operated Stores As of January 29, 2017 , our retail footprint included 406 company-operated stores. While most of our company-operated stores are branded lululemon, 55 of our company-operated stores are branded ivivva and specialize in athletic wear for female youth. Our retail stores are located primarily on street locations, in lifestyle centers, and in malls. Our company-operated stores by brand, and by country, as of January 29, 2017 and January 31, 2016 , are summarized in the table below: We opened 43 net new company-operated stores in fiscal 2016 , including 12 net new stores outside of North America. 2 Table of Contents In fiscal 2017 , our new store growth will come primarily from new company-operated stores in the United States and an acceleration in our company-operated store openings in Asia. Our real estate strategy over the next several years will not only consist of opening new company-operated stores, but also in overall square footage growth through store expansions and relocations. We perform ongoing evaluations of our portfolio of company-operated store locations. In fiscal 2016 , we closed three of our company-operated stores. As we continue our evaluation we may, in future periods, close or relocate additional company-operated stores. We believe that our innovative retail concept and guest experience contribute to the success of our stores. During fiscal 2016 , our company-operated stores open at least one year, which average approximately 2,941 square feet, averaged sales of $1,521 per square foot. The square footage of our company-operated stores excludes space used for non-retail activities such as yoga studios and office space. Direct to Consumer Direct to consumer is a substantial part of our business, representing approximately 19.3% of our net revenue in fiscal 2016 . We believe that a direct to consumer channel is convenient for our core customer and enhances the image of our brand. Our direct to consumer channel makes our product accessible to more markets than our company-operated store channel alone. We believe this channel is effective in building brand awareness, especially in new markets. Other Channels Other net revenue accounted for 8.0% of total net revenue in fiscal 2016 , compared to 6.9% in fiscal 2015 , and 7.1% of total net revenue in fiscal 2014 . Other net revenue includes sales made through the following channels: In January 2015, we entered into a license and supply arrangement with a partner in the Middle East which grants our partner the right to operate lululemon branded retail locations in the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, and Bahrain for an initial term of five years. We retain the rights to sell lululemon products through our e-commerce websites in these countries. Under this arrangement we supply the partner with lululemon products, training and other support. As of January 29, 2017 , there were three licensed stores in the United Arab Emirates and one licensed store in Qatar , not included in the above company-operated stores table. In November 2016, we entered into a license and supply agreement with a partner which grants our partner the right to operate lululemon branded retail locations in Mexico for a term of ten years, subject to certain conditions. We retain the rights to sell lululemon products through our e-commerce websites in Mexico. Under this arrangement we supply the partner with lululemon products, training and other support. As of January 29, 2017 there were no licensed retail locations in operation in Mexico. 3 Table of Contents Community-Based Marketing We utilize a community-based approach to building brand awareness and customer loyalty. We pursue a multi-faceted strategy which leverages our local ambassadors, digital marketing and social media, in-store community boards, and a variety of grassroots initiatives. Product Design and Development Our product design efforts are led by a team of designers based in Vancouver, British Columbia partnering with international designers. Our team is comprised of dedicated athletes and users of our products who embody our design philosophy and dedication to premium quality. Our design team identifies trends based on market intelligence and research, proactively seeks the input of our guests and our ambassadors and broadly seeks inspiration consistent with our goals of style, function and technical superiority. As we strive to continue to provide our guests with technically advanced fabrics, our design team works closely with our suppliers to incorporate innovative fabrics that bring particular specifications to our products. We partner with independent inspection, verification, and testing companies, who conduct a variety of tests on our fabrics, testing performance characteristics including pilling, shrinkage, abrasion resistance, and colorfastness. We develop proprietary fabrics and collaborate with leading fabric and trims suppliers to manufacture fabrics and trims that we ultimately protect through agreements, trademarks and trade-secrets. Sourcing and Manufacturing We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide fabrics for, and to produce, our products. We work with a group of approximately 65 suppliers to provide the fabrics for our products. We work with a group of approximately 35 suppliers that manufacture our products, five of which produced approximately 63% of our products in fiscal 2016 . During fiscal 2016 , no single manufacturer produced more than 30% of our product offerings. During fiscal 2016 , approximately 47% of our products were produced in South East Asia, approximately 28% in South Asia, approximately 15% in China, approximately 1% in North America, and the remainder in other regions. We have developed long-standing relationships with a number of our vendors and take great care to ensure that they share our commitment to quality and ethics. We do not, however, have any long-term term contracts with the majority of our suppliers or manufacturing sources for the production and supply of our fabrics and garments, and we compete with other companies for fabrics, raw materials, and production. We require that all of our manufacturers adhere to a vendor code of ethics regarding social and environmental sustainability practices. Our product quality and sustainability teams partner with leading inspection and verification firms to closely monitor each supplier's compliance with applicable laws and our vendor code of ethics. Distribution Facilities We operate and distribute finished products from our owned or leased distribution facilities in the United States, Canada, and Australia. We own our distribution center in Columbus, Ohio, and lease our other distribution facilities. The approximate square footage of each facility is included in