—Legal, Government, and Regulatory Risks— We are subject to risks arising from the Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Programs, and other regulations, policies, international certifications, and standards impacting low-carbon fuels .” In addition, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding our accounting for the costs of the blending programs under “ Costs of Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Programs,” Note 20 for disclosure of the costs of the blending programs under “Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Programs Price Risk,” and Note 17 for disclosure of our blender’s tax credits under “ Segment Information .” U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) Program The EPA created the RFS program pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. Under the RFS program, by November 30 of each year, the EPA is required to set annual quotas for the volume of renewable fuels that must be blended into petroleum-based transportation fuels consumed in the U.S. The quotas are set by class of renewable fuel (i.e., biomass-based diesel, cellulosic biofuel, advanced biofuel, and total renewable fuel) and are collectively referred to as the renewable volume obligation (RVO). The RVO must be met by obligated parties, who are the producers and importers of the petroleum-based transportation fuels consumed in the U.S. Obligated parties demonstrate compliance annually by retiring the appropriate number of renewable identification numbers (RINs) associated with each class of renewable fuel to satisfy their RVO. A RIN is effectively a compliance credit that is assigned to each gallon of qualifying renewable fuel produced in, or 2 Ta ble o f Conten t s imported into, the U.S. RINs are obtained by blending those renewable fuels into petroleum-based transportation fuels, and obligated parties can also achieve compliance by purchasing RINs in the open market. We are an obligated party under this program and our Refining segment incurs obligations as a result of being a producer and importer of petroleum-based transportation fuels consumed in the U.S., but we also generate RINs under this program as a result of being a producer of qualifying renewable fuels through our Renewable Diesel and Ethanol segments. Therefore, there is a cost to our refining business from this program because in order to comply with our RVO we must either purchase qualifying renewable fuels for blending or purchase RINs in the open market, but we also generate revenue through our Renewable Diesel and Ethanol segments from this program because we produce and sell qualifying renewable fuels. California Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) Under California’s Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) was required to undertake a statewide effort to reduce GHG emissions. One of the programs designed to help achieve those reductions is the LCFS program. The LCFS program is designed to reduce GHG emissions by decreasing the carbon intensity (CI) of transportation fuels consumed in the state. Under this program, each fuel is assigned a CI value, which is intended to represent the GHG emissions associated with the feedstocks from which the fuel was produced, the fuel production and distribution activities, and the use of the finished fuel. CIs are determined using a CARB-developed life cycle GHG emissions analysis model, and CI pathways are certified by the CARB after low-carbon fuel producers submit operational data to demonstrate the life cycle GHG emissions. The certified CIs for both low-carbon and petroleum-based transportation fuels are compared to a declining annual benchmark. Fuels below the benchmark generate credits, while fuels above the benchmark generate deficits. The lower the fuel’s CI score compared to the benchmark, the greater number of credits generated. Each producer or importer of fuel must demonstrate that the overall mix of fuels it supplies for use in California meets the CI benchmarks for each compliance period. A producer or importer with a fuel mix that is above the CI benchmark must purchase LCFS credits sufficient to meet the CI benchmark. Our Refining segment produces and imports petroleum-based transportation fuels in California and thus must blend low-CI fuels or purchase credits to meet the CI benchmark. However, fuels produced by our Renewable Diesel and Ethanol segments have CI scores that are lower than traditional petroleum-based transportation fuels, and we benefit from the demand from other regulated entities for these low-carbon products. In addition, the demand for some of these low-carbon transportation fuels tends to drive higher values for those fuels compared to petroleum-based transportation fuels due to their lower CI scores. We seek to pursue opportunities to further lower the CI of many of our products, including our low-carbon fuels. See “ Our Low-Carbon Projects ” below. Canada Low-Carbon Fuel Programs In July 2022, Canada’s federal environmental agency issued the Clean Fuel Regulations (CFR) program to require primary suppliers of gasoline or diesel that is produced in or imported into Canada to reduce the CI of those products. Annual CI reduction requirements prescribed by the CFR program can be satisfied by using compliance credits that a primary supplier creates (through blending low-CI fuels) or that are purchased by them. The obligation to achieve prescribed CI reduction requirements began on July 1, 2023. The CFR program is in addition to Canada’s provincial programs (such as in Quebec and Ontario), which require the utilization of low-carbon fuels, and is similar to the LCFS program. As a primary supplier of gasoline and diesel in Canada, our Refining segment is subject to Canada’s low-carbon fuel programs described above and thus must blend low-CI fuels or purchase credits to meet the 3 Ta ble o f Conten t s annual CI reduction requirements. As noted above under “California Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS),” fuels produced by our Renewable Diesel and Ethanol segments have lower CI scores than traditional petroleum-based transportation fuels, and we benefit from the increased demand for these low-carbon products as a result of Canada’s low-carbon fuel programs. U.K. Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation (RTFO) Program Established in 2008 under the U.K. Energy Act of 2004, the RTFO program is the U.K.’s primary policy to reduce GHG emissions from transportation fuels by promoting the use of low-carbon fuels. Under the RTFO program, suppliers of relevant transportation fuels that are produced or imported into the U.K. are obligated to blend a minimum specified percentage of qualifying low-carbon fuels into petroleum-based transportation fuels annually. Obligated suppliers can satisfy their obligation by redeeming Renewable Transport Fuel Certificates (RTFCs), either generated by the supplier (through blending low-carbon fuels) or purchased from low-carbon fuel suppliers, or by paying a predetermined amount for each RTFC they choose to buy-out of their obligation. The RTFO program has two components, the main obligation and the development fuel obligation target. The main obligation can be satisfied through the supply of established low-carbon fuels, such as biofuels, while the development fuel obligation target can be satisfied through the supply of advanced low-carbon fuels, such as complex waste fuels or low-carbon fuels of non-biological origin. As a supplier of gasoline and diesel in the U.K., our Refining segment is subject to the U.K.’s RTFO program described above and thus must blend qualifying low-carbon fuels or purchase RTFCs to satisfy our annual obligation. As previously noted, fuels produced by our Renewable Diesel segment have lower CI scores than traditional petroleum-based transportation fuels, and we benefit from the increased demand for these low-carbon products as a result of the U.K.’s RTFO program. U.S. Federal Tax Incentives The U.S. federal government has enacted tax incentives to encourage the production of low-carbon fuels and/or reduce GHG emissions. Section 6426 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (the Code) provided a tax credit (generally referred to as the blender’s tax credit) to blenders of certain renewable fuels to encourage the production and blending of those fuels with traditional petroleum-based transportation fuels. Only blenders that produced a mixture and either sold or used the fuel mixture as fuel were eligible for the blender’s tax credit. The renewable diesel produced by our Renewable Diesel segment is liquid fuel derived from biomass that meets the EPA’s fuel registration requirements; therefore, renewable diesel that we produced and blended qualified for this refundable tax credit of $1.00 per gallon. In addition, Section 40(b) of the Code provided an income tax credit to registered producers of second-generation biofuels that were produced and sold in the U.S. for use in a fuel mixture. In December 2024, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) approved our application for registration as a producer of second-generation biofuels with respect to the cellulosic ethanol produced at our ethanol plants. Therefore, cellulosic ethanol produced and sold by our Ethanol segment qualified for this non-refundable income tax credit of $1.01 per gallon. The tax credits provided under Sections 6426 and 40(b) expired on December 31, 2024. Effective January 1, 2025, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the IRA) replaced Section 6426 with Section 45Z of the Code, which provides a clean fuel production credit for years 2025 through 2027. Tax credits may be claimed under Section 45Z for the qualifying sale of certain low-carbon transportation fuels (such as biodiesel, renewable diesel, and alternative fuels, including neat sustainable aviation fuel 4 Ta ble o f Conten t s (SAF) 2 ) that were produced in the U.S. The amount of credit allowable varies based on the emissions rate for the specific fuel pathway and production process and on whether the facility at which the fuel is produced meets prevailing wage and apprenticeship requirements. In addition, Section 45Q of the Code provides tax credits to certain taxpayers who capture and sequester, store, or use qualified carbon oxides (e.g., carbon dioxide). As further discussed below under “ Our Low-Carbon Projects ,” we continually evaluate such federal tax incentives and may strategically pursue certain opportunities to optimize the potential benefits therefrom. For example, the carbon capture and sequestration projects under evaluation at certain of our ethanol plants would be expected to increase the value of the ethanol product produced at those plants by helping to decrease its CI score and through the expected generation of Section 45Q tax credits. Also, the recently completed SAF project provides DGD the optionality to produce low-carbon jet fuel, which should generate Section 45Z tax credits and increase the value of that product. Our Low-Carbon Projects As of December 31, 2024, we have invested $5.8 billion 3 in our low-carbon fuels businesses, and we expect additional growth opportunities in this area. In January 2023, we announced that DGD approved a large-scale SAF project at the DGD Port Arthur Plant (as defined below under “OUR OPERATIONS— Renewable Diesel ”). The SAF project was successfully completed in the fourth quarter of 2024 and provides the plant the optionality to upgrade approximately 50 percent of its current 470 million gallon renewable diesel annual production capacity to neat SAF. See “OUR OPERATIONS— Renewable Diesel ” below for additional information about our renewable diesel business. We continue to evaluate investments in economic, low-carbon projects, including carbon capture and sequestration, alcohol-to-jet fuel, and additional low-carbon hydrogen opportunities, that are intended to lower the CI of our products. For example, certain of our ethanol plants are located near geology believed to be suitable for sequestering carbon dioxide, and we are evaluating stand-alone projects to sequester carbon dioxide that results from the ethanol manufacturing process at those plants. We also continue to evaluate various other projects to sequester carbon dioxide. See “ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES— Our Capital Resources —Capital Investments” for further discussion of our capital investments associated with low-carbon projects. 2 DGD produces synthetic paraffinic kerosene (SPK), a renewable blending component, using the Hydrotreated Esters and Fatty Acids (HEFA) process. SPK is also commonly referred to as “neat SAF.” Current aviation regulations allow SPK to be blended up to 50 percent with conventional jet fuel for use in an aircraft. This blend is commonly referred to as “blended SAF” or “SAF.” 3 Our investment in our low-carbon fuels businesses consists of $4.0 billion in capital investments to build our renewable diesel business (including neat SAF), and $1.8 billion to build our ethanol business. Capital investments in renewable diesel represent 100 percent of the capital investments made by DGD. See also “ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES— Our Capital Resources —Capital Investments,” which is incorporated by reference into this item for our definition of capital investments. 5 Ta ble o f Conten t s ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS We have well-developed management structures that are central to our decision making and risk management, including three programs that support our environmental management as follows: • Our Commitment to Excellence Management System (CTEMS) is a proprietary systematic approach to planning, executing, checking, and acting to improve everyday work activities at many of our refineries and plants. CTEMS has nine major elements: leadership accountability, protecting people and the environment, people and skills development, operations reliability and mechanical integrity, technical excellence and knowledge management, change management, business competitiveness, external stakeholder relationships, and assurance and review. • Environmental Excellence and Risk Assessment (EERA) elevates the environmental audit and compliance functions to an environmental excellence vision. Its main goal is to assess the design and effectiveness of environmental performance regarding specific excellence objectives, and to facilitate continuous improvement across our operations. EERA defines more than 100 expectations and involves a proprietary five-step process using due diligence on data and field assessments reviewed by a combination of external and internal subject matter experts. • Our Fuels Management System (FMS) provides operational safeguards, software, training, and protocols for uniformity across our refineries and plants to reinforce our compliance with applicable fuels regulations. Built on the success of FMS, our Low Carbon Assurance Program (LCAP) was implemented to further delineate and strengthen our internal processes to assure compliance with applicable low-carbon fuels regulations, policies, and standards. LCAP defines key regulatory requirements, management expectations, and internal regulatory assurances relating to transportation fuels regulated by low-carbon fuels regulations, policies, and standards. OUR OPERATIONS Our operations are managed through the following reportable segments: • our Refining segment, which includes the operations of our petroleum refineries, the associated activities to market our refined petroleum products, and the logistics assets that support those operations; • our Renewable Diesel segment, which includes the operations of DGD and the associated activities to market renewable diesel, renewable naphtha, and neat SAF; and • our Ethanol segment, which includes the operations of our ethanol plants and the associated activities to market our ethanol and co-products. Financial information about these segments is presented in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated by reference into this item. See “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS—Risks Related to Our Business, Industry, and Operations— Our financial results are affected by volatile margins, which are dependent upon factors beyond our control, including the price of feedstocks and the market price at which we can sell our products ,”—“ Industry, market, and other developments could decrease the demand for our products ,”—“ We are subject to risks related to the costs and availability of our feedstocks and other critical supplies ,”—“ Our investments in 6 Ta ble o f Conten t s joint ventures and other entities decrease our ability to manage risk ,” and —“Legal, Government, and Regulatory Risks— We are subject to risks arising from the Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Programs, and other regulations, policies, international certifications, and standards impacting low-carbon fuels ,” which are incorporated by reference into this item. Refining Refineries Overview Our 15 petroleum refineries are located in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K., and they have a combined feedstock throughput capacity of approximately 3.2 million BPD. The following table presents the locations of these refineries and their feedstock throughput capacities as of December 31, 2024. ________________________ (a) Throughput capacity represents estimated capacity for processing crude oil, intermediates, and other feedstocks. Total estimated crude oil capacity is approximately 2.7 million BPD. (b) Represents the combined capacities of two refineries – the Corpus Christi East and Corpus Christi West Refineries. • California ◦ Benicia Refinery . Our Benicia Refinery is located northeast of San Francisco on the Carquinez Straits of San Francisco Bay. It processes sour crude oils into California Reformulated Gasoline Blendstock for Oxygenate Blending (CARBOB) and Conventional Blendstock for Oxygenate Blending (CBOB) gasolines, CARB diesel, diesel, jet fuel, and asphalt. Gasoline production is primarily CARBOB, which meets CARB specifications when blended with ethanol. The refinery receives feedstocks via a marine dock and pipelines and distributes most of its products via pipeline and truck. 7 Ta ble o f Conten t s ◦ Wilmington Refinery . Our Wilmington Refinery is located near Los Angeles. It processes a blend of heavy and high-sulfur crude oils and produces CARBOB and CBOB gasolines, CARB diesel, diesel, jet fuel, and asphalt. The refinery receives feedstocks via pipelines connected to marine terminals and docks and distributes its products via pipeline to various terminals. • Louisiana ◦ Meraux Refinery . Our Meraux Refinery is located approximately 15 miles southeast of New Orleans on the Mississippi River. It processes sour and sweet crude oils and produces gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and high-sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives feedstocks at its dock and has access to the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port and distributes its products via its dock and the Colonial Pipeline. The refinery is located about 40 miles from our St. Charles Refinery, allowing for integration of feedstocks and refined petroleum product blending. ◦ St. Charles Refinery . Our St. Charles Refinery is located approximately 25 miles west of New Orleans on the Mississippi River. It processes sour crude oils and other feedstocks and produces gasoline and diesel. The refinery receives feedstocks via its docks and has access to the Louisiana Offshore Oil Port and distributes its products via its docks and our Parkway Pipeline and the Bengal Pipeline, both of which access the Plantation Pipeline and Colonial Pipeline. • Oklahoma ◦ Ardmore Refinery . Our Ardmore Refinery is located approximately 100 miles south of Oklahoma City. It processes primarily sweet crude oils and produces gasoline and diesel. The refinery receives feedstocks via pipelines and distributes its products via rail, truck, and the Magellan Pipeline system. • Tennessee ◦ Memphis Refinery . Our Memphis Refinery is located on the Mississippi River. It processes primarily sweet crude oils and produces gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel. The refinery receives feedstocks via the Diamond Pipeline, the Dakota Access Pipeline, barge, and rail and distributes its products via truck, barge, the Shorthorn Pipeline, and rail. • Texas ◦ Corpus Christi East and West Refineries . Our Corpus Christi East and West Refineries are located on the Corpus Christi Ship Channel. The East Refinery processes sour crude oil and the West Refinery processes sweet crude oil, sour crude oil, and residual fuel oil, and both refineries produce gasoline, aromatics, jet fuel, diesel, and asphalt. The refineries receive feedstocks via docks on the Corpus Christi Ship Channel and pipelines. The refineries’ physical locations allow for the transfer of various feedstocks and blending components between them. The refineries distribute their products via truck, ship, barge, and pipeline. ◦ Houston Refinery . Our Houston Refinery is located on the Houston Ship Channel. It processes sweet crude and intermediate oils and produces gasoline, jet fuel, and diesel. The refinery receives feedstocks via pipeline, ship, and barge and distributes its products via pipeline, including the Colonial Pipeline and Explorer Pipeline. ◦ McKee Refinery . Our McKee Refinery is located in the Texas Panhandle. It processes primarily sweet crude oils and produces gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and asphalt. The refinery receives feedstocks via pipeline and distributes its products primarily via pipeline and rail. 8 Ta ble o f Conten t s ◦ Port Arthur Refinery . Our Port Arthur Refinery is located on the Texas Gulf Coast approximately 90 miles east of Houston. It processes heavy sour crude oils and other feedstocks and produces gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and residual fuel oil. The refinery receives feedstocks via rail, ship, barge, and pipeline and distributes its products via pipeline, including the Colonial Pipeline and Explorer Pipeline, and via ship and barge. ◦ Texas City Refinery . Our Texas City Refinery is located southeast of Houston on the Texas City Ship Channel. It processes crude oils and produces gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel. The refinery receives feedstocks via pipeline and by ship and barge using docks on the Texas City Ship Channel and distributes its products via ship and barge, as well as via pipeline, including the Colonial Pipeline and Explorer Pipeline. ◦ Three Rivers Refinery . Our Three Rivers Refinery is located in South Texas between Corpus Christi and San Antonio. It primarily processes sweet crude oils and produces gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and aromatics. The refinery receives feedstocks via pipeline and truck and distributes its products primarily via pipeline. • Canada ◦ Quebec Refinery . Our Quebec Refinery is located in Lévis (near Quebec City). It processes sweet crude oils and produces gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, heating oil, and low-sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives feedstocks via ship at its marine dock on the St. Lawrence River (some of which is sourced from our crude oil terminal in Montreal that receives crude oil from western Canada) and distributes its products via our pipeline to our Montreal East terminal and other terminals and via rail, truck, and ship. • U.K. ◦ Pembroke Refinery . Our Pembroke Refinery is located in the County of Pembrokeshire in South West Wales. It processes primarily sweet crude oils and produces gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, heating oil, and low-sulfur fuel oil. The refinery receives its feedstocks via ship and barge through docks on the Milford Haven Waterway and distributes its products via truck, ship, barge, and our Mainline Pipeline. Feedstock Supply Our crude oil and other feedstocks are purchased through a combination of term and spot contracts. Our term supply contracts are at market-related prices and feedstocks are purchased directly or indirectly from various national oil companies as well as international and U.S. oil companies. The contracts generally permit the parties to amend the contracts (or terminate them), effective as of the next scheduled renewal date, by giving the other party proper notice within a prescribed period of time (e.g., 60 days, 6 months) before expiration of the current term. The majority of the crude oil purchased under our term contracts is purchased at the producer’s official stated price (i.e., the “market” price established by the seller for all purchasers) and not at a negotiated price specific to us. 9 Ta ble o f Conten t s Marketing Overview We sell refined petroleum products in both the wholesale rack and bulk markets. These sales include products that are manufactured in our refining operations, as well as products purchased or received on exchange from third parties. Most of our refineries have access to marine facilities, and they interconnect with common-carrier pipeline systems, allowing us to sell products in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Ireland, Latin America, and other parts of the world. Wholesale Rack Sales We sell our products on a wholesale basis through an extensive rack marketing network. The principal purchasers of our products from terminal truck racks are wholesalers, distributors, retailers, and truck-delivered end users throughout the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Ireland, and Latin America. The majority of our rack volume is sold through unbranded channels. The remainder is sold to distributors and dealers that are members of the Valero family of brands that operate branded sites in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Ireland, and Mexico. These sites are independently owned and are supplied by us under multi-year contracts. Approximately 7,000 outlets carry our brand names. For branded sites, products are sold under the Valero ® , Beacon ® , Diamond Shamrock ® , and Shamrock ® brands in the U.S., the Ultramar ® brand in Canada, the Valero ® and Texaco ® brands in the U.K. and Ireland, and the Valero ® brand in Mexico. Bulk Sales We also sell our products through bulk sales channels in the U.S. and international markets. Our bulk sales are made to various petroleum companies, traders, and bulk end users, such as railroads, airlines, and utilities. Our bulk sales are distributed primarily via pipeline, ship, and barge to major tank farms and trading hubs. Logistics We own logistics assets (crude oil pipelines, product pipelines, terminals, tanks, marine docks, truck rack bays, and other assets) that support our refining operations and export capabilities. Demand for transportation fuels in Latin America is expected to continue to grow. To support our wholesale rack operations in Latin America, we have invested in or grown our access to terminals in Mexico and Peru. Our U.S. Gulf Coast refineries are well positioned to support export growth to Latin America, and all of our refineries with waterborne access are well positioned to support export growth in other countries around the world. Renewable Diesel Our Relationship with DGD DGD is a joint venture that we consolidate. We entered into the DGD joint venture in 2011 and it began operations in 2013. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding our accounting for DGD. We operate DGD’s renewable diesel plants and perform certain management functions for DGD as an independent contractor under an agreement with DGD. Renewable Diesel Plants DGD owns two renewable diesel plants. The first DGD plant began operations in 2013 and is located next to our St. Charles Refinery (the DGD St. Charles Plant). The second DGD plant commenced operations in the fourth quarter of 2022 and is located next to our Port Arthur Refinery (the DGD Port Arthur Plant, and together with the DGD St. Charles Plant, the DGD Plants). The DGD Plants produce renewable diesel, renewable naphtha, and with the completion of the SAF project at the DGD Port Arthur Plant, began 10 Ta ble o f Conten t s producing neat SAF in the fourth quarter of 2024. Renewable diesel is a low-carbon liquid transportation fuel that is interchangeable with petroleum-based diesel. Renewable naphtha is used to produce renewable gasoline and renewable plastics. These products are produced from waste and renewable feedstocks using a pre-treatment process and an advanced hydroprocessing-isomerization process. Neat SAF is a renewable blending component that, under current aviation regulations, can be blended up to 50 percent with conventional jet fuel to produce SAF for use in an aircraft. The market value of these products can vary based on regional policies, feedstock preferences, and CI scores. Waste feedstocks (predominantly animal fats, used cooking oils, and inedible distillers corn oils (DCOs)) are the preferred feedstocks due to their lower CI scores; however, vegetable oils and other renewable feedstocks are also used. While several other companies have made, or have announced interest in making, investments in renewable diesel projects, the DGD Plants are currently two of only a small number of operational facilities that have the capacity to process 100 percent waste feedstocks, and this feedstock flexibility currently provides a margin advantage. The DGD Plants receive waste and renewable feedstocks primarily by rail, truck, ship, and barge owned by third parties. DGD is party to a raw material supply agreement with Darling under which Darling is obligated to offer to DGD a portion of its feedstock requirements at market pricing, but DGD is not obligated to purchase all or any part of its feedstock from Darling. Therefore, DGD pursues the most optimal feedstock supply available. The DGD St. Charles Plant has a production capacity of approximately 700 million gallons of renewable diesel and approximately 30 million gallons of renewable naphtha per year. The DGD Port Arthur Plant, which has a production capacity of approximately 470 million gallons of renewable diesel and approximately 20 million gallons of renewable naphtha per year, commenced operations in the fourth quarter of 2022. DGD’s combined renewable diesel and renewable naphtha production capacities increased to approximately 1.2 billion gallons and 50 million gallons, respectively, per year. The SAF project at the DGD Port Arthur Plant commenced operations in the fourth quarter of 2024. The project provides the plant the optionality to upgrade approximately 50 percent of its renewable diesel annual production capacity to neat SAF. Marketing DGD sells renewable diesel, renewable naphtha, and neat SAF under the Diamond Green Diesel ® brand primarily to be blended with petroleum-based diesel, petroleum-based gasoline, and conventional jet fuel, respectively, and to end users for use in their operations. DGD distributes its renewable diesel and renewable naphtha via rail and ship domestically and to international markets. DGD distributes its neat SAF via ship and barge to domestic markets. In 2025, DGD expects to also distribute neat SAF via ship and barge to international markets. 11 Ta ble o f Conten t s Ethanol Ethanol Plants Our ethanol business began in 2009 with the purchase of our first ethanol plants. We have since grown the business by purchasing additional ethanol plants. Our 12 ethanol plants are located in the Mid-Continent region of the U.S., and they have a combined ethanol production capacity of approximately 1.7 billion gallons per year. Our ethanol plants are dry mill facilities that process corn to produce ethanol and various co-products, including livestock feed (dry distillers grains, or DDGs, and syrup) and inedible DCOs. The following table presents the locations of our ethanol plants, their annual production capacities for ethanol (in millions of gallons) and DDGs (in tons), and their annual corn processing capacities (in millions of bushels) as of December 31, 2024. We source our corn supply from local farmers and commercial elevators. Our plants receive corn primarily via rail and truck. Marketing We sell our ethanol under term and spot contracts in bulk markets in the U.S. We also export our ethanol into the global markets and have access to logistics assets that are well positioned to support export growth. We distribute our ethanol primarily by rail (using some railcars owned by us), truck, ship, and barge. We sell DDGs primarily to animal feed customers in the U.S., Mexico, and Asia, which are distributed primarily via rail, truck, ship, and barge. Seasonality Demand for gasoline, diesel, and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. The demand for renewable diesel has not significantly fluctuated by season. Ethanol is primarily blended into gasoline, and as a result, ethanol demand typically moves in line with the demand for gasoline. 12 Ta ble o f Conten t s GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS We incorporate by reference into this item the disclosures on government regulations, including environmental regulations, contained in the following sections of this report: • “—OUR COMPREHENSIVE LIQUID FUELS STRATEGY— Regulations, Policies, and Standards Driving Low-Carbon Fuel Demand ”; • “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS—Legal, Government, and Regulatory Risks”; and • “ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS—ENVIRONMENTAL ENFORCEMENT MATTERS.” Our business is heavily regulated, and our costs for compliance with government regulations are significant and can be material, especially costs associated with the Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Programs disclosed in Notes 19 and 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated by reference into this item. In addition, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding our accounting for the costs of these programs under “ Costs of Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Programs.” Our capital expenditures attributable to compliance with government regulations, including environmental regulations, did not have a material effect on our total capital expenditures in 2024, and we currently do not expect that compliance with government regulations, including environmental regulations, will have material effects on our total capital expenditures in 2025. HUMAN CAPITAL We believe that our employees provide a competitive advantage for our success. We seek to foster a strong team culture that supports our employees, and we strive to provide a safe, healthy, and rewarding work environment for our employees with opportunities for professional growth and long-term financial stability. Headcount On December 31, 2024, we had 9,922 employees. These employees were located in the following countries: Of our total employees as of December 31, 2024, 1,771 were covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements and 9,898 were in permanent full-time positions. See also “ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS—General Risk Factors —Our business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes, as well as by new legislation or an inability to attract and retain sufficient labor, and increased costs related thereto .” 13 Ta ble o f Conten t s Company Culture and Human Capital (People) Strategy Our company culture and our well-defined expectations of ethics and behavior guide the daily work of our employees and support our efforts to produce exceptional company results. The six values that define our culture are Safety, Accountability, Teamwork, Do the Right Thing, Caring, and Excellence . Our people strategy and programs are designed and implemented in support of our business and strategic objectives. In building and fostering great teams, we are guided by the following: • We strive to hire and promote top-talent employees with team-oriented work ethics and values; • Our pay, benefits, and support programs are designed to attract and retain excellent employees and to reward innovation, ingenuity, and excellence; • We seek to provide a best-in-class work environment built on a foundation of respect, accountability, and trust; • We promote a culture of learning intended to drive excellence at all levels of the organization and to foster career-long growth and development opportunities for employees; and • We continually assess employee performance, organizational structures, and succession plans to support operational excellence, efficiency, and effectiveness. We believe that having employees from different backgrounds with a variety of talents, experience, education, and perspectives helps create innovative and engaged teams, which provide strengths and advantages for our success. To this end, we are committed to equal employment opportunity without illegal discrimination or harassment based on race, color, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, physical or mental disability, veteran status, or any other characteristic protected under applicable law. In accordance with our obligations as a federal contractor, we are committed to hiring and retaining veterans and reservists of the U.S. Armed Forces, as well as individuals with disabilities. As of December 31, 2024, approximately 11 percent and 13 percent of our U.S. employees were veterans and reservists of the U.S. Armed Forces, and individuals with disabilities, respectively. Safety We believe that safety and reliability are extremely important, not only for the protection of our employees and communities, and the cultural values we aspire to as a company, but also for operational success, as a decrease in the number of employee and process safety events should generally reduce unplanned shutdowns and increase the operational reliability of our refineries and plants. This, in turn, should also translate into a safer workplace with fewer environmental incidents and stronger community relations. We strive to improve safety and reliability performance by offering year-round safety training programs for our employees and contractors and by seeking to promote the same expectations and culture of safety. We also seek to enhance our safety performance by conducting safety audits, quality assurance visits, and comprehensive safety and risk assessments at our refineries and plants. To assess safety performance, we measure our annual total recordable incident rate (TRIR), which includes data with respect to our employees and contractors and is defined as the number of recordable injuries per 200,000 working hours. We also annually measure our Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate, which is a metric defined by the American Petroleum Institute that identifies process safety events per 200,000 total employee and contractor working hours. We use these measures and believe they are 14 Ta ble o f Conten t s helpful in assessing our safety performance because they evaluate performance relative to the numbers of hours being worked. These metrics are also used by others in our industry, which allows for a more objective comparison of our performance. Our refinery employee and contractor TRIR for 2024 was 0.16 and 0.25, respectively, and our refinery Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate for 2024 was 0.04. Compensation and Benefits We believe that it is important to provide our employees with competitive compensation and benefits. The benefits we offer to employees, depending on work location and eligibility status, include, among others, healthcare plans that are generally available to all employees, extended sick leave, new-parent leave, access to financial planning, programs to support dual-working parents at different stages of their careers, caregiver support networks (including an on-site child care center at our headquarters) and support for children and parents with disabilities, a company 401(k) matching program, various company-sponsored pension plans, on-site employee wellness centers (also available to eligible dependents at our headquarters), tuition reimbursement programs, fitness center access or a stipend, and employee recognition programs. We believe that it is important to reward employee performance and have an annual bonus program that rewards company achievements in various operational, financial, and strategic objectives. While such objectives include typical financial performance metrics, we believe performance in areas such as sustainability, human capital management, environmental stewardship (including health, safety, and environment), compliance, corporate citizenship, and community are also important, and our annual bonus program rewards achievements in these areas. Our compensation programs are designed with consideration of anti-discrimination laws, and are built upon a foundational philosophy of market-competitive and performance-based pay. Training and Development We offer a comprehensive training and development program for our employees in subjects such as engineering and technical excellence, safety, environmental, maintenance and machinery/equipment repair, ethics, leadership, and employee performance. We also require all employees to complete training on technical matters, such as cybersecurity and information technology security, and various compliance and corporate conduct matters, including business ethics, conflicts of interest, and anti-bribery and anti-corruption, among others. Our employee development initiatives include customized professional and technical curriculums, efforts to engage our leadership in the employee’s development process, and providing employee performance discussions. We offer virtual training, which allows for additional availability and access for employees located across our many facilities. Wellness We strive to promote the health and well-being of our employees and their families. Our Total Wellness Program serves as the umbrella program for all aspects of employee wellness and the vehicle through which many of the benefits referenced above are provided. Under our Total Wellness Program, employees’ emotional, physical, and financial well-being are prioritized through comprehensive resources and subsidized services, including an annual wellness assessment, on-site clinics and fitness centers, an employee assistance program, educational sessions on financial wellness, retirement planning, and a variety of other topics. We continually evaluate our benefit offerings to support improved health and wellness outcomes for our people and to help determine the most appropriate allocation of company resources. 15 Ta ble o f Conten t s PROPERTIES Our principal properties are described in “OUR OPERATIONS” above and that information is incorporated by reference into this item. We believe that our properties are generally adequate for our operations and that our refineries and plants are maintained in a good state of repair. As of December 31, 2024, we were the lessee under a number of cancelable and noncancelable leases for certain properties. Our leases are discussed in Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated by reference into this item. Financial information about our properties is presented in Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated by reference into this item. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our website address is www.valero.com. Information (including any presentation or report) on our website is not part of, and is not incorporated into, this report or any other report or document we may file with or furnish to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), whether made before or after the date of this annual report on Form 10-K and irrespective of any general incorporation language therein, unless specifically identified in such filing as being incorporated by reference in such filing. Furthermore, references to our website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement, and other filings and reports, as well as any amendments to those filings and reports, filed with or furnished to the SEC are available on our website (under Investors > Financials > SEC Filings) free of charge, soon after we file or furnish such material. In addition, the SEC maintains a website address (https://www.sec.gov) where you may access these filings and reports. Additionally, on our website (under Investors > ESG), we post our Corporate Governance Guidelines and other governance policies, including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and the charters of the committees of our board of directors (Board). In this same location, we also publish our 2024 ESG Report, which includes our 2024 SASB Report, our GHG targets and other disclosures, as well as disclosures concerning our political engagement and trade associations. These documents are available in print to any stockholder that makes a written request to Valero Energy Corporation, Attn: Secretary, P.O. Box 696000, San Antonio, Texas 78269-6000. These reports and disclosures are not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K, are not deemed filed with the SEC, and are not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings with the SEC, whether made before or after the date of this annual report on Form 10-K and irrespective of any general incorporation language therein, unless specifically identified in such filing as being incorporated by reference in such filing. 16 Ta ble o f Conten t s ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this report. Each of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or liquidity, as well as, in certain cases, the value of an investment in our securities. Although the risks are organized by headings and each risk is discussed separately, many are interrelated. Risks Related to Our Business, Industry, and Operations Our financial results are affected by volatile margins, which are dependent upon factors beyond our control, including the price of feedstocks and the market price at which we can sell our products. Our financial results are affected by the relationship, or margin, between our product prices and the prices for crude oil, corn, and other feedstocks that we purchase, which can vary based on global and regional market conditions, as well as by type and class of product or feedstock. Historically, product margins have been volatile, and we believe they will continue to be volatile in the future. Our cost to acquire feedstocks and the price at which we can ultimately sell products depend upon several factors beyond our control, including global and regional supplies, inventory levels, and availability of and demand for feedstocks (such as crude oil, waste and renewable feedstocks, and corn), liquid transportation fuels (such as gasoline, diesel, renewable diesel, SAF, and ethanol), and other products. These in turn depend on, among other things, global and regional production levels or capacities of suppliers and competitors, natural gas and electricity availability and costs, economic activity and growth levels (or the lack thereof), U.S. and foreign relations, political affairs, government regulations, and the events described in many of the other risk factors below. The ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other petroleum-producing nations that collectively make up OPEC+ to agree on and to maintain crude oil price and production controls has also had, and is likely to continue to have, a significant impact on the market prices of crude oil and certain of our products. Although several refinery closures have recently been announced and others are expected in the future, there have also been recent additions to global refining capacity, which create risks and uncertainties related to product margins, volatility, and market perceptions of the refining industry. Regarding low-carbon fuels margins, see also, among other risk factors set forth below, “ We are subject to risks arising from the Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Programs, and other regulations, policies, international certifications, and standards impacting low-carbon fuels .” Some of these factors can vary globally or regionally and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. The longer-term effects of these and other factors on product margins are uncertain. We do not produce crude oil, waste or renewable feedstocks (except inedible DCOs), corn, or other primary feedstocks, and must purchase nearly all of the feedstocks we process. We generally purchase our feedstocks long before we process them and sell the resulting products. Price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the resulting products have had, and could continue to have, a significant effect on our financial results. A decline in market prices for our products and feedstocks has also had, and could again have, a negative impact to the carrying value of our inventories. Factors outside of our control, such as economic, legal, regulatory, and political uncertainties, global geopolitical and other conflicts and tensions, inflation (and the potential for increased prices to reduce demand), prolonged periods of high interest rates, and public health crises (such as the COVID-19 pandemic) have negatively affected, and many such factors could continue to negatively affect, economic activity and growth levels of the U.S. and other countries. In turn, the demand for and consumption of our products, and also our revenues, margins, growth prospects, and capital allocation decisions have been and could again be negatively impacted. 17 Ta ble o f Conten t s A significant portion of our profitability is derived from the ability to purchase and process crude oil feedstocks that historically have been cheaper than benchmark crude oils. These crude oil feedstock differentials vary significantly depending on many factors, including global and regional economic conditions, trends and conditions within crude oil and refined petroleum products markets, and the events described above and in many of the other risk factors below . Previous declines in such differentials have had, and any future declines will likely again have, a negative impact on our results of operations. Industry, market, and other developments could decrease the demand for our products. A reduction in the demand for our products could result from events and trends such as increases in fuel efficiency, decreases in travel or fuel consumption levels, and a transition by consumers to alternative fuel vehicles, such as electric vehicles (EVs) and hybrid vehicles, in each case, whether as a result of government mandates or incentives, industry developments, societal changes, or sentiment or perception with respect to our products, or fossil fuels and GHG emissions generally. New developments may alter consumer fuel or energy preferences or make alternative fuel vehicles more affordable or desirable, including improvements in battery and storage technology, increases in driving ranges, increased availability of charging stations and other infrastructure, expanded and more reliable supply chains, improvements in hydrogen fuel cell technology, and other technological changes. Any such developments could increase consumer acceptance and result in greater market penetration of alternative fuel vehicles or otherwise decrease the demand for our products. There may also be new entrants into the low-carbon fuels industry that could meet demand for lower-carbon transportation fuels and modes of transportation in a more efficient or less costly manner than our technologies and products. Other companies have made, or announced interest in making, investments in renewable diesel, SAF, and other low-carbon projects. As a result, our low-carbon fuels businesses have faced, and will likely continue to face, increased competition for feedstocks and customers. While we cannot currently predict the ultimate form, timing, or extent of these developments, any such event could materially and adversely affect our margins and sales volumes, and in turn our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We are subject to risks arising from sentiment towards climate-related matters, fossil fuels, GHG emissions, and other sustainability-related matters. In recent years, a number of advocacy groups, both in the U.S. and internationally, have campaigned for government and private action to promote climate-related and other sustainability-related initiatives through activities including public pressure, investment, engagement, and voting practices. These activities have included promoting the divestment of securities of fossil fuel companies, pressuring such companies to commit to future output reductions, to align with net-zero commitments, or to implement costly practices or technology to reduce GHG emissions, and pressuring lenders, insurers, investors, and other market participants to otherwise limit or curtail activities with or involving fossil fuel companies. As a result, we believe some parties have reduced or ceased lending to, investing in, or insuring fossil fuel companies. If these or similar efforts are continued or increased, it could negatively impact our operating costs and capital allocation decisions, as well as our ability to access capital markets, obtain new investment or financing, or to adequately insure our business and operations. These activities have also contributed to increasing societal, investor, and legislative focus and pressure on additional actions and disclosures related to, among others, climate-related matters, GHG emissions and reduction targets, business resilience under the assumptions of demand-constrained scenarios, net-zero ambitions, alignment with third-party frameworks, human capital management, political activities, environmental justice, and racial equity audits. This has included more frequent attempts to effect business or governance changes through mechanisms such as stockholder proposals, vote-no campaigns, exempt proxy solicitations, and other public pressure. As a result, we have faced, and expect to continue 18 Ta ble o f Conten t s to face, increasing pressure regarding our efforts and disclosures with respect to GHG emissions reductions/displacements (including our methodologies and timelines with respect thereto) and other sustainability-related matters, including negative publicity, prescriptive stockholder requests, and demands for engagement thereon. Sentiment towards many environmental, social, and governance (ESG)-related practices h as also become increasingly politically charged, and scrutiny and skepticism thereof and “anti-ESG” sentiment has caused, and could continue to cause, additional demands on companies. Responding to such focus and pressure has been, and will likely continue to be, costly and time-consuming. The methodologies, standards, and requirements for tracking and reporting GHG emissions and other sustainability-related matters have not been standardized or harmonized, and many continue to evolve. Our interpretations of various voluntary or required reporting standards may also differ from those of others. As a result, our metrics, targets, and other disclosures with respect to such matters may not necessarily be calculated or presented in the same manner or be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by us in other contexts, or to disclosures by others. We believe that our disclosures and methodologies related to such matters reflect our business strategy and are reasonable at the time made or used. However, as our business, strategy, low-carbon projects, market and financial conditions, and/or applicable methodologies, standards, or requirements continue to develop and evolve, we may significantly revise or cease reporting or using certain such disclosures and methodologies if we determine that they are no longer advisable or appropriate, or we are otherwise required to do so. Any actual or perceived failure by us to achieve our publicly disclosed targets or long-term ambition with respect to GHG emissions reductions/displacements within the timelines we have announced, or at all, or a revision thereof or to our other sustainability-related disclosures, could cause reputational harm, and expose us to litigation or regulatory enforcement, among other negative impacts. We are subject to risks arising from the cost and availability of natural gas and electricity. Our operations depend on the reliable supply of natural gas and electricity. We consume significant amounts of natural gas and electricity to operate our refineries and plants, and natural gas and electricity prices have a measurable effect on the total cost of our operations. We also purchase other commodities whose prices may vary depending on the prices of natural gas or electricity. The volatility of prices for both natural gas and electricity represent an ongoing challenge to our operating results. Additionally, the availability and cost of natural gas and electricity have been, and could continue to be, affected by numerous events, such as government regulations, rate increases, weather (e.g., hurricanes and periods of extreme heat or cold), logistics interruptions, electric grid outages, cybersecurity incidents, intermittent electricity generation (particularly from wind and solar), hostilities, terrorism, protests, sanctions, human error, and supply and demand imbalances for natural gas and electricity. For example, the real-time market structure of the largest grid operator in Texas exposes many of our refineries and operations located in Texas to “scarcity pricing” during periods of supply and demand imbalance. As electrification continues to grow, or if there are increased restrictions or costs imposed on the ability of utilities or power suppliers to utilize certain energy sources (such as through restrictions on, or other pressure not to use, fossil fuel or nuclear-generated electricity), there will likely be increased strains on and risks to the integrity, reliability, and resilience of electrical grids, and increased volatility and tightness in natural gas and electricity supplies across the world. These events could negatively affect the cost, reliability, and availability of our natural gas and electricity supplies and may cause sporadic outages disrupting our operations. Growing electrification and rapidly developing and increasing technology use (such as artificial intelligence (AI), computer processing, cryptocurrency mining, and cloud storage, and the data centers and power supplies required to support these activities) will also likely increase the intermittency and decrease the reliability of electricity supplies, particularly for grids highly dependent upon wind and solar power, which would exacerbate the foregoing challenges, including increasing costs. Increased 19 Ta ble o f Conten t s government regulations and opposition to pipeline construction and electricity generation and transmission projects have also resulted in, and could continue to result in, the underinvestment in, or unavailability of, the infrastructure and logistics assets needed to obtain natural gas and electricity in a reliable and cost-efficient manner. While we actively manage these risks through contracting and hedging our exposure to price volatility as appropriate, and by pursuing projects that reduce our reliance on third parties and fortify the resilience of our assets, increases in prices for natural gas and electricity, or disruptions to our supplies thereof, have had, and could again have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We are subject to risks related to the costs and availability of our feedstocks and other critical supplies. We source our petroleum-based and low-carbon fuel feedstocks, as well as many other critical supplies, such as catalyst, chemicals, treating materials, and metal-based consumables from suppliers throughout the world. We are, therefore, subject to the political, geographic, and economic risks attendant to doing business with suppliers located in, and supplies originating from, different areas across the world, including global geopolitical and other conflicts and tensions (such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict and turmoil in the Middle East and other producing regions) that have impacted, and may continue to impact, trade flows and transportation costs. If one or more of our supply contracts were terminated, or if political or other events were to disrupt our traditional feedstock and other critical supplies, we believe that adequate alternative supplies would be available, but it is possible that we would be unable to find adequate or optimal alternative sources of supply. Our refineries and plants without access to waterborne deliveries or offtake must rely on rail, pipeline, or ground transportation and thus have been, and will likely continue to be, more susceptible to such risks. If we are unable to obtain adequate or optimal volumes, or are able to obtain such volumes only at increased prices or costs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected, including from reduced product sales volumes or higher operating costs. The U.S. government can also prevent or restrict us from doing business in or with other countries. For example, U.S. sanctions targeting Russia, Iran, and Venezuela limit or ban the ability of most U.S. companies to engage in petroleum-related transactions involving these countries. U.S. and other government sanctions and actions by governments and private market participants to refrain from purchasing or transporting crude oil and petroleum-based products from particular countries have impacted, and may continue to impact, trade flows, and our access to business opportunities in various countries. The U.S. federal government under the current presidential administration has also implemented and indicated the potential for new or revised tariffs, duties, sanctions, and other actions with respect to U.S. and foreign trade, manufacturing, and investment, and some foreign governments have in turn implemented or indicated the potential for similar responses impacting U.S. goods and/or foreign operations and businesses dealings of U.S. companies. While there is currently a lack of certainty around the likelihood, timing, and details of many such actions, similar events have in the past had, and could again have, an adverse effect on our ability to obtain optimal or adequate volumes of feedstocks and other critical supplies at favorable prices and costs. Although the other joint venture member in DGD supplies some of DGD’s waste feedstock at competitive pricing, DGD must still secure a significant amount of its waste and renewable feedstock requirements from other sources. If DGD’s traditional feedstock supplies are disrupted, or become limited or only available on unfavorable terms, or if U.S. policies (such as recent IRS guidance regarding the 45Z tax credit under the IRA) disfavor foreign feedstock supplies making their use economically impracticable, DGD could be required to develop alternate sources of supply and increase its use of certain feedstocks that result in lower-margin products or curtail production. As the production of renewable diesel and other low-carbon fuels has increased, as well as the competition for feedstocks, DGD has increasingly been required to source a greater amount of its feedstocks from international sources, which intensifies its 20 Ta ble o f Conten t s exposure to political, geographic, regulatory, tax, and economic risks associated with international sourcing of supplies. Any such disruption to DGD’s feedstock supply could adversely impact its and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Our Ethanol segment relies on corn sourced from local farmers and commercial elevators in the Mid-Continent region of the U.S., and such supply is acutely exposed to the effects that weather and other environmental events in that region can have on the amount or timing of crop production. Crop production is also affected by government policies (such as farming subsidies and low-carbon fuels incentives) and by market events (such as changes in fertilizer prices and rail disruptions). Reductions or delays in crop production from these or other events could reduce and disrupt the supply of, or otherwise increase our costs to obtain, corn for our Ethanol segment, and such events have occurred periodically. We are subject to risks arising from our refining and marketing operations outside of the U.S. We have operations, including marketing activities, outside of the U.S., particularly in Canada, the U.K., Ireland, Mexico, and Peru, and are subject to disruptions and developments in any of these markets, including due to actual or alleged violations of law; expropriation or impoundment of assets; failure of foreign governments and state-owned entities to honor their contracts; differential treatment of state-owned entities; property disputes; economic instability; currency exchange rates, including the value of the Canadian dollar, the pound sterling, the euro, the Mexican peso, and the Peruvian sol relative to the U.S. dollar; restrictions on the transfer of funds; duties and tariffs; fees; taxes or penalties; transportation delays; import and export controls; labor unrest; security issues; government decisions, orders, mandates, investigations, regulations, and issuances or revocations of permits and authorizations; the effects of military conflicts; and changing regulatory, judicial, and political environments, including changes impacting foreign trade and related matters. The occurrence of any such event could result in the halting, curtailing, or cessation of operations at impacted facilities; commercial restrictions; delay, denial, or cancellation of projects, permits, and authorizations; and increased costs, fines, penalties, and burdens; any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Although we actively seek to manage these risks, we have experienced some of these events in the past and could experience additional events in the future. As noted above, various governments across the world have implemented or indicated the potential for new or revised tariffs, duties, sanctions and other actions with respect to U.S. and foreign trade, manufacturing, and investment. While there is currently a lack of certainty around the likelihood, timing, and details of many such actions, similar events have in the past had, and could again have, an adverse effect on our foreign operations and investments, and the competitiveness of our products globally. We are subject to risks arising from transportation and logistics disruptions and availability. In addition to our own logistics assets, we use the services of third parties to transport feedstocks to our refineries and plants and to transport our products to market. If the ability of the logistics assets used to transport our feedstocks or products is disrupted, or there are increased prices or costs with respect thereto, whether because of labor issues, weather events, dock availability, water levels of key waterways for trade, pipeline, rail, trucking, or maritime disruptions, cybersecurity incidents, accidents, derailments, collisions, fires, explosions, natural catastrophes, spills, public health crises, terrorism, hostilities, rate increases, or other government or third-party actions (including protests and human error), it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Although we actively seek to manage these risks, we have experienced some of these events in the past and could experience additional events in the future. 21 Ta ble o f Conten t s Competitors that produce their own supply of feedstocks, own their own retail sites, operate in different regions, or have greater financial resources may have a competitive advantage. The refining and marketing industry is highly competitive with respect to both feedstock supply and refined petroleum product markets. We compete with many companies for available supplies of crude oil and other feedstocks, and for third-party retail outlets for our petroleum-based products. We do not produce any of our primary feedstocks (except inedible DCOs) and we do not have a company-owned retail network. Some of our competitors, however, obtain a significant portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production, have extensive networks of retail sites, have different revenue streams (such as from chemicals or integrated operations), and operate in different regions. Such competitors are at times able to offset or avoid losses or decreased profitability from downstream operations generally, or in challenging regions, with such other operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed product margins or feedstock disruptions. Some of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have and may have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent to our industry. We are subject to risks arising from an interruption in any of our refineries or plants. Our refineries, DGD Plants, and ethanol plants are our principal operating assets and are subject to planned and unplanned downtime and interruptions. Our operations could also be subject to significant interruption if any of our refineries or plants were to experience a major accident or mechanical failure, be damaged by severe weather or natural disasters (such as hurricanes), or man-made disruptions (such as cybersecurity incidents, terrorism, protests, or human error), or otherwise be forced to shut down or curtail operations. Any such interruption could materially and adversely affect our earnings (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost productivity and repair and other costs. Significant operational interruptions could also lead to increased volatility in the price of our feedstocks and many of our products. We have experienced some of these events in the past, and although we focus on maintaining safe, stable, and reliable operations, we may experience additional events in the future. Large capital and other strategic projects can take many years to complete, and the legal regulatory, and political environments or other market conditions may change or deteriorate over time. We engage in capital and other strategic projects based on many factors, including the forecasted project economics, legal, regulatory, and political environments, and the expected return on the capital to be deployed. Such projects can take many years to complete, during which time such environments or other market conditions may change from our forecast, particularly with respect to low-carbon projects such as those related to SAF and carbon capture and sequestration. Supply chain disruptions may also delay projects or increase the costs associated therewith. As a result, such projects may not be completed on schedule or budget, or at all, and may not achieve their expected returns, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. In addition, challenges to or opposition of fossil fuel infrastructure projects continue to make the approval and completion of such projects more difficult and costly. Despite various government and third-party support for and acknowledgement of the importance of certain low-carbon fuels and technologies, such as carbon capture and sequestration, there has also been growing regional political, environmental, and other opposition to many such projects. Such opposition may affect grants of the relevant permits or authorizations by government or judicial officials, or grants of easements or rights-of-way by land owners, and has previously resulted in, and could again result in, permits and other authorizations being challenged, delayed, denied, revoked, appealed, or granted subject to onerous conditions. In certain 22 Ta ble o f Conten t s instances, this has resulted in, and could again result in, the cancellation or restructuring of projects and costs and charges related thereto. Our investments in joint ventures and other entities decrease our ability to manage risk. We conduct some of our operations through joint ventures in which we share control over certain economic, legal, and business interests with other joint venture members. We also conduct some of our operations through entities in which we have a minority or no equity ownership interest, such as the variable interest entities (VIEs) described in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The other joint venture members and the third-party equity holders of the VIEs have certain economic, business, or legal interests, opportunities, or goals that are inconsistent with or different from our own, have different liquidity needs or financial condition characteristics than our own, are subject to different legal or contractual obligations than we are, and may be unable to meet their obligations, each of which exposes us to risks. For example, while we operate the DGD Plants and perform certain day-to-day operating and management functions for DGD, we do not have full control of every aspect of DGD’s business and certain significant decisions concerning DGD require approval from the other joint venture member, including acquiring or disposing of assets above a certain dollar threshold, making certain changes to its business plan, raising debt or equity capital, altering its distribution policy, and certain other transactions. While we consolidate certain VIEs, we do not have full control of every aspect of these VIEs, their debt or financing decisions that are reflected in our consolidated financial statements, or the actions taken by their third-party equity holders, some of which have affected, and could continue to affect, our business, legal position, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Failure by us, an entity in which we have a joint venture interest, or the VIEs to adequately manage the risks associated with such entities, and any differences in views among us and such third parties, could prevent or delay actions we prefer to take, expose us to legal, regulatory, and reputational risks, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We may incur losses and additional costs as a result of our hedging transactions. We currently use derivative instruments as described in Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and we expect to continue their use in the future. If the instruments we use to hedge our exposure to various risks are not effective or expose us to other unexpected events, we may incur losses or charges, and we have experienced such events in the past. We also have incurred, and may again incur, additional costs or charges related to changes in applicable regulations on such instruments. Legal, Government, and Regulatory Risks We are subject to risks arising from legal, regulatory, and political developments regarding climate-related matters, GHG emissions, and the environment, or that are adverse to or restrict refining and marketing operations. Many government authorities across the world have imposed, and may impose in the future, laws, regulations, and policies designed to facilitate less petroleum-dependent modes of transportation (e.g., increases in fuel economy or efficiency standards, low-carbon fuel standards, restrictions and bans on vehicles using internal combustion engines, tariffs, duties, tax incentives, and EV subsidies), which could reduce demand for our petroleum-based products and/or all liquid transportation fuels. For example, CARB’s current Scoping Plan identifies strategies to reduce liquid petroleum consumption in California by 94 percent by 2045, and CARB has approved a series of related rulemakings discussed below. The European Union (EU), the U.K., Canada, and Quebec have each adopted what they refer to as “zero-emissions vehicle” mandates and other government authorities across the world, such as Mexico, Quebec, 23 Ta ble o f Conten t s and other U.S. states have also announced, adopted, or are considering, restrictions on the sale of new internal combustion engine vehicles, stricter tailpipe emissions standards, and/or limitations on or penalties on the use of certain petroleum-based products and biofuel feedstocks. The U.S. federal government under the previous presidential administration was also aggressive in the scope, magnitude, and number of actions it took for the stated purpose of addressing GHG emissions and other environmental matters, including efforts to limit or eliminate petroleum-dependent modes of transportation. For example, the previous administration utilized a “whole of government” approach to climate-related initiatives that sought to organize and deploy the full capacity of the U.S. federal government in novel and coordinated ways to limit or eliminate the use of most petroleum-based products. The previous administration also issued a number of related executive orders seeking to limit or eliminate petroleum-based fuels by imposing mandates of so-called 100 percent zero-emission vehicle acquisitions and setting ambitious decarbonization goals. These actions contributed to a number of U.S. federal rulemakings and other actions, as well as similar actions by U.S. state and local governments, that disfavor petroleum-dependent modes of transportation and in many cases ignore or downplay the full life cycle carbon footprint of EVs, and thereby seek to inappropriately advantage EVs over internal combustion engine vehicles. For example, the EPA issued its “Revised 2023 and Later Model Year Light-Duty Vehicle Greenhouse Gas Emission Standards,” revising the GHG emissions standards for light-duty vehicles for 2023 and later model years at a level that cannot be achieved by internal combustion engine vehicles through improvements in combustion efficiency. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) also similarly issued its “CAFE Standards for MY 2024-26 Passenger Cars and Light Trucks,” increasing the corporate average fuel economy and carbon dioxide standards for certain passenger cars and light-duty trucks such that automakers cannot demonstrate compliance without increasing the sales of EVs. Together, these federal regulations seek to significantly increase the market penetration of EVs and other alternative fuel vehicles and reduce U.S. gasoline consumption. The IRA also includes substantial subsidies to promote EVs and other alternative fuel vehicles. Additionally, in November 2023, the Federal Highway Administration finalized rules that require certain U.S. state departments of transportation and metropolitan planning organizations to establish declining tailpipe carbon dioxide emissions targets for motor vehicles. Moreover, in March 2024, the EPA announced new, more ambitious emissions standards for light-, medium-, and heavy-duty vehicles for model years 2027 to 2032 that the agency expects will drive a significant increase in the percentage of new vehicles sold in the U.S. to be EVs or other alternative fuel vehicles. In May 2024, the EPA published final rules intended to sharply reduce emissions of methane and other air pollution from oil and gas operations, and within such rules, the EPA nearly quadrupled its estimate of the “social cost” of carbon dioxide, a measure that is often used by certain U.S. federal agencies as part of their analyses of the costs and benefits of more stringent regulations on GHG emissions. In June 2024, NHTSA also issued final rules increasing both the fuel economy standard for passenger cars and light trucks for model years 2027 to 2031 and the fuel efficiency standards for heavy-duty pickup trucks and vans for model years 2030 to 2035. The current U.S. presidential administration has expressed a different approach with respect to U.S. climate, environmental, and energy policies and has revoked many of the previous administration’s executive orders and directives, and has indicated an intention to modify or eliminate many of the aforementioned laws and regulations, several of which are also currently being litigated, or may be subject to future legal challenges. However, the ultimate timing and outcome with respect to any modifications or eliminations of such laws and regulations, which would likely require action by the U.S. Congress or a federal agency or department, as well as pending or future litigation, are currently unknown and are subject to considerable uncertainty. It is also currently uncertain whether and to what extent any U.S. state and local governments will still pursue the prior administration’s agenda on such matters. 24 Ta ble o f Conten t s In addition to these U.S. federal measures, in March 2022, the EPA reinstated a waiver of preemption under federal law authorizing California to implement its “Advanced Clean Cars I” rule requiring sales of increasing percentages of alternative fuel vehicles, thereby also reviving other U.S. states’ ability to adopt standards identical to California’s. In November 2022, California approved its “Advanced Clean Cars II” rulemaking, which similarly requires an increasing percentage of “zero-emission” light-duty vehicle sales through 2035, at which time 100 percent of new light-duty vehicle sales in California must be zero-emission vehicles. The EPA recently granted CARB’s request for a waiver of preemption for Advanced Clean Cars II and other preemption waiver requests. Several other U.S. states have already adopted, or are expected to adopt, similar laws, regulations, or mandates. California is also pursuing similar zero-emission vehicle mandates for medium- and heavy-duty vehicles via its “Advanced Clean Trucks” rulemaking and its “Advanced Clean Fleets” rulemaking. Additionally, in July 2023, CARB announced a “Clean Truck Partnership” with various U.S. truck and engine manufacturers and the Truck and Engine Manufacturers Association that is aimed at advancing the development of EVs or other alternative fuel vehicles for the commercial trucking industry regardless of whether the regulatory mandates survive legal challenge. While many of these measures are currently being litigated, or may in the future be subject to legal challenges, we face a risk that automakers will nevertheless move forward with changing their manufacturing and marketing practices. Moreover, there have been various international climate accords and multilateral agreements aimed at reducing GHG emissions. While the current U.S. presidential administration has ordered the U.S. withdrawal from the 2015 Paris Agreement, and many international accords and multilateral agreements are not legally binding, they have in certain instances resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, additional government and regulatory actions across the world that are adverse to our industry. Incentives to conserve energy or use renewable energy could also negatively impact our industry. Government authorities across the world have also announced, imposed, or are considering, taxes or penalties on fossil fuel companies for profits or windfalls, or margins above a certain level, carbon border adjustments, fees, and other regulations that are adverse to or restrict refining and marketing operations, could increase costs, and limit profitability. For example, California’s Senate Bill No. 2 (such statute, together with any regulations contemplated or issued thereunder, SBx 1-2) and Assembly Bill No. 1 (ABx 2-1), as described in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, present considerable uncertainty and risks for us. These legal, regulatory, and political developments, as well as other similarly focused laws and regulations, such as, among others, the California, Quebec and other cap-and-trade programs, the U.K. Emissions Trading Scheme, the Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Programs, the South Coast Air Quality Management District’s Rule 1109.1 – Emissions of Oxides of Nitrogen from Petroleum Refineries and Related Operations, CARB’s Control Measure for Ocean-Going Vessels At Berth Rule and its Airborne Toxic Control Measure for Commercial Harbor Craft, reductions in the National Ambient Air Quality Standards, bans or restrictions on certain chemicals, feedstocks, products, or processes (such as hydrofluoric acid alkylation), and other laws related to climate, GHG emissions, or environmental, health, or safety matters, have in certain instances resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, increased costs and capital expenditures that impact our ability to effectively and profitably operate and maintain our facilities. These include things such as (i) restrictions on certain refinery operations, (ii) and requirements to modify our operations or install new emissions controls or other equipment, and (iii) costs to administer our obligations under the Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Programs. Such risks are particularly acute in California due to the pace and scope of anti-fossil fuel developments there. 25 Ta ble o f Conten t s Many of these matters and developments (including SBx 1-2 and ABx 2-1) are subject to considerable uncertainty due to a number of factors, including technological and economic feasibility, pending or future legal challenges, and potential or future changes in law, regulation, or policy, as noted above, and it is not currently possible to predict the ultimate effects thereof on us. However, such events could adversely restrict or affect our refining and marketing operations and limit our profitability; cause us to make changes with respect to our business plan, strategy, operations, and assets, including our current financial and accounting estimates and assumptions; cause a reduction in demand for our products; and result in negative publicity, litigation, and regulatory enforcement; each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We are subject to risks arising from the Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Programs, and other regulations, policies, international certifications, and standards impacting low-carbon fuels. As described under “ITEMS 1. and 2. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES—OUR COMPREHENSIVE LIQUID FUELS STRATEGY— Regulations, Policies, and Standards Driving Low-Carbon Fuel Demand ,” government authorities across the world have issued, are considering issuing, and/or are altering existing low-carbon fuel regulations, policies, and standards to address GHG emissions and the percentage of low-carbon fuels in the transportation fuel mix. We strategically market our low-carbon fuels based on regional policies, regulations, feedstock preferences, CI scores, and our ability to obtain fuel pathways, credits, certifications, and incentives. A significant portion of our low-carbon fuels are sold in California, Canada, and the U.K. Regarding the RFS, in June 2023, the EPA announced final rules that increase RVOs for 2023, 2024, and 2025, and in December 2024, the EPA proposed partially waiving the compliance year 2024 RVO for cellulosic biofuel, extending the reporting deadline for 2024, and revising certain biogas provisions. Regarding the LCFS, in November 2024, CARB approved updates thereto that set targets to reduce the CI of California’s transportation fuel pool by 30 percent by 2030 and by 90 percent by 2045, increase support for so called “zero-emissions” infrastructure, and make more transit agencies eligible to generate credits, although such amendments were recently paused. We are exposed to the volatility in the market price of RINs, LCFS credits, and other credits, as described in Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We cannot predict the future prices of RINs, LCFS credits, or other credits. Prices for RINs, LCFS credits, and other credits are dependent upon a variety of factors, including, as applicable, EPA and U.S. state regulations, regulations of other countries and jurisdictions, the availability of RINs, LCFS credits, and other credits for purchase, transportation fuel production levels (which can vary significantly each quarter), approved CI pathways, and CI scores. Future RVOs, RFS changes, the ability to sell “E15” fuel year-round, and actions related to small refinery exemptions may also affect RIN prices, and certain such actions have recently been proposed or are currently being challenged. For example, if the RVOs for cellulosic biofuel are high relative to D3 RIN generation, RIN prices may rise, and the EPA may or may not issue cellulosic waiver credits in time to moderate price spikes, if at all. If an insufficient number of RINs, LCFS credits, or other credits are available for purchase (or available only at increased prices), or if we are otherwise unable to meet our obligations under the Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Programs (for example, if there were to be demand destruction for gasoline, diesel, and renewable fuels resulting from displacement of internal combustion engine vehicles with EVs that results in production falling short of established RVOs, an acceleration of the “blendwall,” or other significant deviations from projected volumes), our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity could be adversely affected. The adoption of any “eRIN” program could also increase RIN price volatility and result in other adverse impacts that cannot be fully predicted at this time. 26 Ta ble o f Conten t s The Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Programs and the U.S. federal tax incentives related to low-carbon fuels (such as the IRA) are complex, can be subject to interpretative uncertainty, often have different or conflicting requirements or methodologies, and are frequently evolving, requiring us to periodically update our systems and controls for compliance, and imposing strains on company resources. In addition to regulation, demand is growing for low-carbon fuels certified through various voluntary certification bodies such as the International Sustainability and Carbon Certification system, which presents business opportunities, but also entails additional strains on company resources. These regulations, policies, and standards have a significant impact on the m arket prices of low-carbon fuel feedstocks and products, and in turn the margins on our low-carbon fuels. Our low-carbon fuels businesses could be materially and adversely affected if (i) such regulations, policies, and standards are adversely changed or interpreted, unavailable, or discontinued, including due to adverse changes in the perception of low-carbon fuels, (ii) any of our low-carbon fuels products, or the feedstocks used in their production, do not comply therewith, or would result in reduced benefits or incentives thereunder, or (iii) we are unable to satisfy or maintain the conditions of any approved pathways or certifications thereunder, or under voluntary certifications. Such changes or developments could also negatively impact our low-carbon projects. Other applicable environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations expose us to various risks. Our operations are also subject to other extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations by various levels of government authorities where we operate or have operated, including those relating to the release or discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, pollution prevention, air emissions, and characteristics and composition of fuels. Certain of these laws and regulations have in the past imposed, and could again impose, obligations on us to conduct assessment or remediation efforts at our current or formerly owned facilities or third-party sites where we have taken wastes for disposal or where our wastes may have migrated. The principal environmental risks associated with our operations are air emissions, waste handling, and releases into the soil, surface water, or groundwater. Such laws and regulations have also imposed, and may again impose, liability on us for our acts or omissions, or those of others, without regard to noncompliance, causation, contribution, negligence, or fault. Because environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations have become more complex and stringent and new or revised laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed, and are being interpreted and applied in new and controversial ways, the level of costs required for such matters has increased and may continue to increase. Additionally, U.S. federal and many state regulatory agencies have become increasingly aggressive in the scope and frequency of, and the magnitude and type of the relief sought by, the enforcement and investigative actions they have pursued under applicable environmental, hea lth, and safety laws and regulations, particularly with respect to fossil fuel companies. This has been particularly acute in California. Such enforcement and investigative actions, as well as threats thereof, have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, increased costs, expenses, and negative publicity. Even if the current U.S. presidential administration pursues a less aggressive approach with respect to environmental regulation and enforcement, there may continue to be citizen suits seeking to enforce such laws and regulations. Despite our efforts to maintain safe and environmentally responsible operations, in certain instances we have faced, and may continue to face, changing regulatory interpretations, fines or penalties, and liability for personal injury, property, and natural resource damage, environmental justice impacts, and assessment and remediation costs due to actual or alleged emissions, pollution, discharges, and/or contamination. We are also exposed to potential liability and costs related to regulated chemicals and other regulat ed materials, such as various perfluorinated compounds, per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances, benzene, MTBE, and petroleum hydrocarbons, at or from our current and formerly owned facilities, and new or additional regulations with respect to certain such materials have recently been adopted by the EPA and certain U.S. states, and other regulations may arise in the near 27 Ta ble o f Conten t s future. Such liabilities and costs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We are subject to risks arising from litigation, government action, and mandatory disclosure rules related to climate-related and other sustainability-related matters, or aimed at the fossil fuel industry. We could face increased climate‐related litigation with respect to our operations, disclosures, or products. Governments and private parties across the world have filed lawsuits or initiated regulatory action against fossil fuel companies. Such lawsuits and actions often allege noncompliance with applicable laws or regulations, or damages they attribute to perceived climate-related matters, and seek damages and/or abatement under various tort and other theories, including under consumer protection, human rights, or constitutional provisions. We have been named as a co-defendant in a lawsuit in state court by a county in Oregon seeking significant damages and abatement under various tort theories (including deceptive disclosures). We intend to vigorously defend against the allegations. However, the ultimate outcome and impact to us of such litigation cannot be predicted with certainty at this time, and we could incur substantial legal costs and reputational damage associated with defending such matter, and an adverse ruling could require us to pay significant damages. Similar lawsuits may be filed in other jurisdictions. Governments and private parties are also increasingly filing lawsuits or initiating regulatory action based on allegations that certain public statements and disclosures by companies regarding climate-related matters and other sustainability-related matters are false or misleading “greenwashing” that violate deceptive trade practices, consumer protection statutes, or other similar laws and regulations, or are fraudulent or misleading under applicable corporate or securities laws and regulations. Similar issues can also arise relating to aspirational statements, such as net-zero or carbon neutrality targets, or alignment with certain third-party frameworks or standards that are made without an adequate basis to support such statements. The states of New York and Vermont have also enacted legislation establishing various cost recovery programs designed to upgrade infrastructure and fund community initiatives they designate as purported climate mitigation investments, under which “responsible parties,” which the programs have deemed to include refiners and other fossil fuel companies, bear the costs on a strict liability basis, and other U.S. states have proposed or are considering similar legislation. Certain governmental authorities have also sought to attribute blame for certain perceived climate-related matters primarily to fossil fuel companies, and some are considering legislation that would create private causes of action making them strictly liable for damages incurred in certain natural catastrophes and weather events. These matters present a high degree of uncertainty regarding the extent to which fossil fuel companies face an increased risk of liability and reputational damage stemming from alleged climate-related and other sustainability-related matters. Various U.S. state and local governments have also proposed or are considering imposing taxes (including a recent ballot measure in California), fees, assessments, or tax abatement limitations on fossil fuel companies. See also Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition to voluntary disclosures in response to investor and stakeholder requests, many governments have also proposed or adopted regulations that impose disclosure obligations with respect to various climate-related matters and other sustainability-related matters. For example, in March 2024, the SEC adopted sweeping and novel disclosure obligations with respect to GHG emissions reporting, which are currently stayed pending litigation. In addition, in October 2023, California adopted a host of broad and far-reaching climate-related disclosure obligations, including with respect to GHG emissions, climate-related financial-risk reporting, and statements regarding GHG emissions reductions. Other U.S. states have announced or proposed similar regulations. The U.K., Canada, and the EU have also passed laws 28 Ta ble o f Conten t s requiring various burdensome disclosures related to various environmental, climate, social, supply chain, human rights, and other sustainability-related matters. These include, among others, the EU’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive and its Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive, which also provides a private cause of action. Other jurisdictions are considering sustainability-related disclosure laws. Some governments have also adopted regulations, or are launching investigations and requesting information, based on pricing practices in the fossil fuel industry. For example, in September 2022, California adopted the Oil Refinery Cost Disclosure Act (SB 1322), which requires refineries in California to report monthly on the volume and cost of the crude oil they buy, the quantity and price of the wholesale gasoline they sell, and the gross gasoline margin per barrel, among other information. Some third parties (including governments) we do business with have begun requesting product-specific GHG emissions disclosures from us in connection with their own reporting or goals. Our efforts to comply with these and other requests and regulations impose a strain on company resources and expose us to risk by requiring disclosure of information that (i) may be protected trade secrets and/or competitively sensitive information, (ii) exposes us to litigation and regulatory actions and investigations, (iii) is inconsistent with other government regulations or our current practices that may utilize different methodologies or standards, (iv) is subject to many assumptions and inherent calculation difficulties, such as accuracy, completeness, and dependence on third parties, and (v) may be perceived in ways that adversely impact our business relationships, credibility, and reputation. We are subject to risks arising from compliance with and changes in tax laws. We are subject to extensive tax liabilities imposed by multiple jurisdictions, including income taxes; indirect taxes (e.g., excise, duty, sales, use, gross receipts, and value-added taxes); and payroll, franchise, withholding, and ad valorem taxes. New and revised tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed that could result in increased expenditures for tax liabilities in the future. For example, the IRA contains significant changes to U.S. tax law including, but not limited to, a corporate alternative minimum tax and a one percent excise tax on the purchase by companies of their own stock. Many of these tax liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the respective taxing authorities. Although we believe we have used reasonable interpretations and assumptions in calculating our tax liabilities, the final determination of these tax audits and any related proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Any adverse outcome of any of such tax audits or related proceedings could result in unforeseen tax-related liabilities that may, individually or in the aggregate, materially affect our cash tax liabilities, or create issues with respect to certain of our business permits, authorizations, and registrations, and, as a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate may change significantly as a result of political or economic factors beyond our control. It is also possible that future changes to tax laws or tax treaties (including the global minimum tax), or interpretations thereof, could impact our ability to realize the tax savings recorded to date and adversely affect our future effective tax rates. Cybersecurity and Privacy Related Risks We are subject to risks arising from a significant breach of our information systems. Our information systems and network infrastructure have been and continue to be subject to frequent unauthorized access attempts and other cyber attacks, including ransom-related incidents, which could result in increased costs to detect, prevent, respond to, and mitigate. Such efforts include, among other measures, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third-party experts and consultants. These attacks could also result in (i) a loss of intellectual property, proprietary information, or employee, customer, supplier, or vendor data, (ii) public disclosure of sensitive information, (iii) systems interruption, (iv) disruption of our business operations, (v) remediation 29 Ta ble o f Conten t s costs and repairs of system damage, (vi) reputational damage that adversely affects customer, supplier, or investor confidence, and (vii) damage to our business and competitiveness. A breach could also originate from or compromise our customers’, vendors’, suppliers’, or other third-party networks outside of our control that could impact our business and operations, as occurred with the Colonial Pipeline cybersecurity incident in May 2021. Although we implement internal controls on the connectivity of third parties to our systems that attempt to prevent or mitigate the impact from incidents affecting third-party systems, we have limited control over ensuring that third parties themselves are consistently enforcing strong controls over their systems. Increased risks of such attacks and disruptions also exist because of global geopolitical and other conflicts and tensions. A breach may also result in legal claims or proceedings against us by our stockholders, employees, customers, vendors, and government authorities. There can be no assurance that our current or future infrastructure protection technologies and disaster recovery plans can prevent or mitigate such breaches, cyber, and ransom-related incidents, or systems failures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. The continuing and evolving threat of cybersecurity incidents (including through AI) has resulted in increased regulatory focus on prevention and disclosure, such as the directive issued by the U.S. Transportation Security Administration following the Colonial Pipeline cybersecurity incident, the obligations imposed by the U.S. Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act adopted in March 2022, and the SEC’s cybersecurity and governance disclosure rules is sued in 2023. We have been, and may continue to be, required to expend significant resources to comply with such laws and regulations, and otherwise be exposed to litigation and regulatory enforcement related thereto. See “ ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY ” for additional information on such matters. Increasing legal and regulatory focus on data privacy and security issues could expose us to increased liability and operational changes and costs. Along with our own data and information in the normal course of our business, we collect and retain certain data that is subject to specific laws and regulations. The compliant processing of this data domestically and transferring of this data across international borders continues to increase in complexity, which has, and will likely continue, to impose increased strains on company resources for compliance functions related thereto. This data is subject to regulation at various levels of government in many areas of our business and in jurisdictions across the world, including data privacy and security laws such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation, the U.K. Data Protection Act 2018, Quebec’s Bill 64, the California Consumer Privacy Act, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act, and various other comprehensive privacy laws passed by other U.S. states. We also operate in other jurisdictions (such as Mexico and Peru) that have issued, or are considering issuing, data privacy laws and regulations. Additionally, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission has adopted rules requiring the reporting of certain data breaches. As the implementation, interpretation, and enforcement of such laws continues to progress and evolve, there may also be developments that amplify such risks. Any failure by us to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to litigation and regulatory enforcement. General Risk Factors Uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets, or changes in our credit profile or ratings, can adversely affect our ability to obtain credit and capital, increase our costs, and limit our flexibility. Our ability to obtain credit and capital depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors that we do not control. Our ability to access credit and capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access those markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, the cost and availability of debt and equity financing or commercial arrangements may be adversely impacted by prolonged periods of high interest 30 Ta ble o f Conten t s rates, inflation, unstable or illiquid market conditions, or adverse changes in our credit profile or to our credit ratings. These factors could adversely impact and limit our ability to obtain favorable credit and financing, raise our cost of capital, or require us to provide collateral or other forms of security, which would increase our costs and restrict operational and financial flexibility. Unstable or illiquid market conditions and periods of prolonged high interest rates could also negatively impact our pension plans’ assets and funding requirements. From time to time, we may also need to supplement our cash generated from operations with proceeds from financing activities or obtain letters of credit in certain commercial transactions. In addition, we rely on the counterparties to our commercial agreements and commodity hedging and derivative instruments to fulfill their obligations thereunder. Uncertainty and illiquidity in financial markets and periods of prolonged high interest rates could have an adverse impact on the costs or availability of the financial and commercial arrangements provided by such parties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. We are subject to risks arising from severe weather events. Severe weather events, such as storms, hurricanes, droughts, wildfires, and floods, can impact the supply of, or increase our costs to obtain, feedstocks and other critical supplies (including water), and disrupt our operations. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, costs and expenditures associated with severe weather, such as to keep our facilities performing and to mitigate the risks to our operations. If more intense or frequent severe weather events occur, or if our mitigation efforts are unsuccessful, the physical and disruptive impacts could have a material adverse effect on our operations and assets. Our business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes, as well as by new legislation or an inability to attract and retain sufficient labor, and increased costs related thereto. Certain employees at five of our U.S. refineries, as well as at each of our Canada and U.K. refineries and terminal in Montreal, are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, which generally have unique and independent expiration dates, and workers at any of our facilities that are not currently represented by a union could vote for such representation in the future. To the extent we are in negotiations for labor agreements at any time, there is no assurance an agreement will be reached without a strike, work stoppage, or other labor action, and such actions have occurred for certain periods in the past. Any prolonged strike, work stoppage, or other labor action at our facilities or otherwise impacting third parties that support our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Future labor legislation also could result in labor shortages and higher costs. An inability to recruit, train, and retain adequate personnel, or the loss or departure of personnel with key skills or deep institutional knowledge, may negatively impact our business. Inflation has also caused, and may in the future cause, increases in employee-related costs. Our ability to adequately insure losses or liabilities arising from various hazards exposes us to risks. Our business and operations are subject to various hazards common to the industry, including explosions, fires, toxic emissions, transportation hazards, severe weather events, and natural catastrophes (including earthquakes), among others. As protection against these hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses and liabilities arising from such hazards, and we have experienced, and may again experience, certain uninsured or self-insured events related thereto. Premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies could increase substantially based on market conditions and certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for limited amounts or types of coverage. If we incur a significant loss or liability for which we are not adequately insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. 31 Ta ble o f Conten t s